### TOPIC: 3 reasons why you are losing money in 3-bet pots
these three mistakes could be costing
you a ton of money in three bad parts
almost everyone is making them and even
high stakes players are often guilty of
the last one
so make sure you watch till the end for
a quick and easy way to boost your
rhetoric
betting too small on low boards so when
you look at a bar like seven five to use
rainbow it looks pretty dry and also
given that you're in position with a low
spr it's pretty tempting to be using a
small size right a big size might not
feel especially effective on such a
dryboard but it turns out that if you
look at what the solver wants to do on
this in this kind of situation it
actually wants to bed pretty big so
somewhere around like two-thirds to
three quarter spot is uh turns out it's
the optimal size on the board like 75 to
suitable and the main reason for this is
that our range is actually pretty
polarized on the sport right unlike in a
single race quad we're not really going
to have pants like 7x 5x uh probably not
gonna have pocket Paris like uh three
seven fours so at least hopefully not
right and because of that our batting or
bad size is really driven by our over
pair region so let's take a look at an
example of this case so this over here
is button button three bet versus cutoff
right so cut off open on 103 bits and
cut off calls and we get this 75 juice
rainbow board and you can see the
preferred size uh that the solver lights
is actually three quarter spot and uh
when you look at the composition of
buttons range it's actually pretty clear
why we want to size up because besides
over pairs button actually just has a
bunch of uh High cars like East High as
well as king height there's really no in
between ends like top pairs under pairs
second pairs so his ranges is pretty
polarized and the question we need to
ask ourselves is how big do over pairs
went to bed so overcast you know being
pretty strong of course they're gonna
want to be sizing up right there's they
have like plenty enough equity right it
says Kings they have in excess of 80 and
Equity so there's no need to be making a
small uh like one third part size bed
that's usually reserved or hence that
have around uh maybe 60 or 60 something
percent equity that are not able to uh
bet such a big size because they're just
going to isolate themselves against
stronger hands but Aces and Kings
clearly it's not going to have this sort
of uh problem where you can see
the effect of a big bag like three
quarters file right is that we're still
able to get plenty of value against
hence that that are way behind us right
this entire region or One Pair of Hands
and stuff like read over Paris as well
you know it's a pretty good result to be
if you better have like Asus or Kings
you get called by like tens right the
sentence basically drawing did again too
so of course you you want to win as big
of a bet as possible against hands like
these like even stuff like Ace five six
seven but they only have uh five or five
hours against you so
it's the benefit of sizing up where you
definitely get to extract more value
from this part of your opponent's Ridge
right and you'll you'll see that this
also applies to low pair boards right
actually doesn't really matter that much
whether uh the board is paired or
unpaired the shape of our initial shape
of our opponents range it's pretty
similar no matter whether the board is
7-5 years or like 755 for example oh
you're always gonna see
that our range is pretty much like over
Paris and over cards right and let's
discuss before and over Paris mostly
when to go big so 755 for betting around
half mostly half pot right
um so not quite as big as before but we
definitely don't want to go like a third
of the park again looking at the
composition of orange it is pretty
similar right we just have a bunch of
over Pairs and a bunch of doves right
and the natural bed size for all of
these open pairs is a slightly bigger
one okay so the question then is why do
you guys think that in the single
respite on the board like five five
three we clearly want to be going for
his smaller side so again this is
something that we can take a look at
later with the GTO result reports right
about third Parts in general we want to
be sizing down so why do you guys think
this doesn't apply for three bad parts
the caller probably has like a similar
amount of not into it's probably going
to be around like five or six percent
right that five or six percent actually
matters much more when the spr is high
Paris series ranges are wider which is
really true as well okay
um because ranges are wider
what we what we actually see is that big
line is of course calling way wider
since this is a civil Race part and it's
getting like a good discount in the big
time right so the the result is that if
button has a hand like async so first of
all you can kind of see our range is not
quite as polarized right it's not just
uh like very strong hands and and air
hands are just quite a bit of uh like
top pair as well right stuff like uh
small pocket errors a slightly higher uh
proportional details and of course most
of these have no one too bad quite as
big right and on top of that something
really important to understand here is
that when you have a headlight is king
or a squid right this actually falls
into the category of a marginal head
right previously in the three bed pod it
was more updated because it's quite
um it's not that realistic to be bathing
like three quarters pot with uh Ace King
or not that realistic could be bad thing
like any size with async and do extra to
have my really good Equity when call
right but in a single race plot
especially if we bet small enough we can
get called by plenty of worse aside
where opponent is calling with pretty
much every ASI quite a bit of King green
and King Jack as well and this allows us
to get quite a bit of thin value and of
course we're only able to get distant
value if we use a small and a size right
imagine if we start potting it with a
headlight escaping we're going to be
folding out quite a lot of the hands
that we would much rather get called by
okay so if we the point is that if we
want the better headlight is King then
the only size that makes sense to bet is
the small one so this has the effect of
driving or bed sizing downwards right
the over pairs themselves would probably
want the better bigger size on their own
but because we're also pretty interested
in betting hands like Ace King as well
and some of these smaller pocket pairs
that need quite a bit of protection if
you better hand like Forest you know and
your opponent votes something my queen
Jack right you're basically following
out night outs over for faculty because
you can hit a query in the Jag as well
as a seven and it's all of these
marginal hands that are driving our bed
sizing downwards because once again the
only way that we can bend them is to use
a small bed size so this is reflected in
the equity of the headlight is King as
well right 62 63 in a single respawn and
if we go back to uh the previous
three-pot you can see that Ace King only
has uh barely like less than 50 percent
so clearly you know every bet like a
third of the part your opponent calls
your Equity is going to drop like way
below 50 right so this hand actually
doesn't really affect our bed size in
any way it's pretty much a block at this
point so with gloves it third sizing
just as a photo uh whatever your strong
hands were to go for which of course is
the big size so quiz question number one
on the board of seven five views rainbow
we saw that the solver mostly was the
battery for the start how do you guys
think the sizing is going to change if
the board was 2068 should we size down
since I over pair us up a little bit
less Equity B maybe we should size up to
charge our opponent's clusters or C do
you expect there to be not much of a
change
foreign
[Music]
is just because your over pairs are
worth a slightly smaller BET right so
well done to everyone who got it correct
let's take a look at some of these
two-tone bars right basically if we
let's say if we change this to the deuce
of diamond immediately you're gonna see
the bed sizing [ __ ] downwards or barely
uh pretty much never using the three
quarters but now we're only going for
the half flat band and uh let's also
take a look at some of these uh reports
so let's filter
load disconnected parts
let's say a Thai and below and if we
filter by bit size what do you see is
that the pretty much only boards where
where the big bet is getting used
they're all exclusively rainbow boards
and then most of the two-door boards
were betting half bought uh sometimes
even a little bit smaller than that
right and the main reason is that your
overtime soldiers were a slightly
smaller size right if the board was
seven five loose rainbow what we saw
previously was that there's not much of
an issue in sizing up because even if
you bet like pretty big your opponent
still has to call with that time or a
very weak laugh catches right even hands
like it's nice they don't look weak but
I would still consider them with black
catches because the times that they are
behind they're only drawing to two outs
okay so it's really nice that uh you can
put in such a big bed and still get
called by plenty of defense and of
course getting caught by 7x and five
exit so it's not dead as well right it's
not quite as good but it's definitely
not a bad thing on the other hand if you
change this to the deuce of diamonds
right and now let's say we try that
thing three quarter spot right
immediately you see uh you can kind of
see why this size is not that efficient
because you use quite a bit of value
from all of these uh like we pocket pair
of black catchers so I didn't eat some
nights that you really need to get
caught by decent so ideally you want to
get a call by as many of them as
possible because they're only drawing to
two outs against your value region right
and the main reason why these cells
don't need to depend I guess there's two
different ways of looking at it like
probably a more accurate way of thinking
about it is to say that these hands are
now the value given the presence of the
pressure right when the board is
two-tone and every single one third hand
is going to go down in the equity so if
you're betting the same size your
opponent is getting the same products
but his Equity is lower naturally he's
going to be more inclined to default
because something like lines uh now your
Bluffs are going to have so many more
out so you're gonna have stuff like
getting rid of diamonds King jack of
diamonds and this is basically flipping
with those hands at this point so that's
one way of looking at it right or you
can also say that we don't need to
defend so many of these weakest black
catches because we have plenty of
better candidates to defend right so
stop like uh you know King Queen of
Diamonds basically all of these
Threshers that have so many outs even
the times that they are behind right so
they're doing much better uh Equity
rights against your overpass so we tend
to prefer calling the descents instead
of uh pocket Paris and you know if you
were to call like pocket Paris or top up
after us we'll probably be calling a
little bit too much right and ultimately
the effect that this has on buttons that
size right is that it just makes it a
lot less attractive to be going for such
a big size because you are now taking
away a lot of the weakest block catches
in your bonus calling range and you're
replacing them with hands that have a
ton about against your value imagine if
your Apple has like queens or Jacks
right and uh instead of calling with
bucket Force you know your opponent is
now calling with hands like Ace 10 of
diamonds and that's quite a disaster for
your specific hand because this hand is
essentially flipping with you right so
to solve this problem what we do is we
just size down a touch if we bet half
part of the set then a lot of these weak
left catches are going to start calling
again right and that's more or less the
reason why we say stuff right just to
make sure that all the pairs up a little
bit better Equity recall and they're not
just isolating themselves against all of
these high Equity heads in your
opponent's range so I'm gonna draw a
diagram now right just to further like
illustrate this point okay so imagine if
we have a grid right and now what I'm
gonna do is I'm going to light up all of
our opponents various Holdings okay and
I'm going to plot the graph of uh like
how much how much Equity queens has
against every single hand in the colors
range so I'm going to start off with uh
the rainbow board so on the Regal board
you know your opponent is going to have
some sets for sure right it's not that
big of a proportion but you're gonna be
joined it like some percentage of the
time right against like sevens and then
five so this represents like the very
strong hands in your opponent's rage and
that besides that you can imagine
there's not really that many hence that
you're worried about right most of your
bonus black catches they're gonna have
like at most like five hours against you
and then a lot of them are just going to
only have two outs as well okay so the
graph part in The Joint right but the
the graph of
um like the amount of equity that greens
has to be plotted according to every
single hand in your opponent three intro
it's gonna look something like this
right and that's exactly the reason why
we were able to bet such a big size
because let's say if we
if we as we increase our bed size is a
bit bigger and bigger and bigger so
opponent is going to call a tighter
range for sure right at some point you
know we don't want to go so big that we
just isolate us begins all of the very
strong hands right but you can still bet
pretty big and have really decent Equity
by call or even when you reach this
point you can see as a whole like on
average right we're still getting a lot
of very thick value from our opponent's
uh dark catchers right so that's the
reason why we're okay we're sizing up uh
these lower rainbow boards okay on the
other hand so I'm also going to plot the
graph of uh let's see if the ball was
too tone instead okay so similarly
Queens is going to uh or rather your
opponent is also going to have some
Regional tense that are in a really good
shape against you okay
um so this this again would be like has
access and maybe some two pair on
certain boards but a side stack
there's also going to be a bunch of
um like zastros that have a significant
amount of outs against you and a
significant amount of equity
against your overpass and of course he's
still going to have like a bunch of five
out Terrors and and two Alters so the
overall effect you can see that if we
start going for too large of a bit
okay so as this bar starts shifting
towards the left
right uh previously on the rainbow box
so if you look at the blue line that
this is still uh like pretty okay right
because we're getting a really big value
for all of our opponents uh weakest
black catches but if you do this on a
two-tone board then you know at some
point the equity of your overpowered
attempts that you get call is going to
be quiet for right because you're
basically like forcing out all of the
hands that have zero outs against you
and then you're getting called by hand
side you're basically flipping against
so to solve this product right what we
do is we go for a model of an
intermediate size right not too too
small but not too big as well so if you
bet like half plot you can still get
called by a bunch of hands that like
don't have that many outs against you so
it's kind of like a healthy
media break you're not losing too much
value but you're also not just like
isolating yourself against all of the
high Equity heads so this brings us to
the second mistake mistake number two
betting we go over Paris too often so
this is something that uh I'm sure we
all do a lot in single response like
button versus big plane especially it's
really natural you know on the low bar
to just bad hands like nice intense and
then if you want to use some over pairs
to protect your checking range get
really natural to use hand side Aces and
perhaps Kings but turns out that this is
a pretty big mistake in true bad parts
like of course the reason why we do this
as single response is because they're
lower over pairs are more uh vulnerable
okay so again in a single Race part
if you look at buttons uh buttons over
pairs are doing we're definitely betting
like it's nice more often than 80
Seconds right but you need to understand
that the reason why we're allowed to do
this is that the big blind it's not
really going to have that many hands in
between Asus and it sorry it has like a
little bit of lines but that's about it
so Asus IDs are pretty much the same
head like they have a I guess it's just
a little bit more Equity right because
your end is not as vulnerable but in
terms of the proportion of your
opponent's ratio you're behind right uh
they're pretty much behind like the same
percentage of your opponent's rate so
naturally you know we if our hand is
worth about the scene is about the same
strength of course we prefer to bend the
one that's more vulnerable right but
it's a little bit dangerous to apply
this to a three bed especially you know
in position through that power where
radios are so tight and you know as you
go early and earlier in the position so
let's take a look at cutoff versus
cutoff tree bet versus hijacked already
you start to see a trend where it is the
settings are betting way more often than
stuff I eat tonight and the reason for
that is because the hijack is going to
have plenty of checks and tensile
Knights so so when you compare a
headline Asus web apps they're really
not the same hand at all and this is
reflected in the equity difference Asus
84 Equity it's 59 Equity okay so it's
more or less a module at this point and
if you look at the frequency of the
various uh over pairs I think this makes
a lot of sense as well right like queens
and Jacks uh betting all the time Queens
especially right it makes sense about
all the time because it's somewhat
vulnerable and there's not much of a
difference between Asus and queens right
since your opponent is not going to we
have these sensor often okay so that's
why uh like Queens you can see is
batting just a tiny bit more than Aces
but once you go down to tens and knights
and each there's too big of an equity
difference like there's two big drop in
equity because not only does your
opponent have a bunch of tracks and
Tents right Jackson tents are all so
quite a large proportion of your
opponent's range given how tight is
calling right so even though the
absolute number of combos is not big but
you know ultimately big blind is only uh
sorry the color is only going to have
like 63 combos total like so it makes a
huge difference whether you have Aces or
nine in this case and the effect only
gets more and more Extreme as we go
earlier and earlier in the in the
positions so let's say hijacked
treatment versus utg right again you see
the same Trend I think it's just a
little bit more extreme right tense is
actually quite a high frequency check
now eights and ninths interestingly the
types that you bet these ends right they
actually have a little bit of uh Bluff
element today because your opponent is
supposed to fall like tens and nines
sometimes right so you can really
understand like why Aces and kings are
better way more often than the weaker
over pairs so the next question is how
can we exploit someone who's making this
mistake they say of your opponent in a
situation like this is uh you know is
playing it a little bit more like a
single Race part but it can say nice
intense and drags uh and then checking
his ideas and things like what kinds of
adjustments do you think we can make
against his C bet I would say the main
adjustment right is really to be a bit
more aggressive with hand slide uh
queens and Jack specifically right if I
had like quiz is originally indifferent
to track racing and check hauling you
know it's a different given the fact
that your opponent is batting Aces that
kicks a lot and then not batting Jackson
tells that opted right so if someone is
doing the opposite right then uh surely
Queens is going to become much higher EB
as a check result right so if this
handle is previously in different above
options I would imagine against an
opponent who is like batting objects
sometimes and checking Aces and Kings
like Queens should just become like a
pure check race now so that would be the
mean adjustment that I would make it by
suspected that my opponent was making
this mistake and in a way it actually
makes it even more important as the tree
better to be betting hand side Aces and
kicks right because in my own experience
as uh as a live player so I played a lot
of soft games right people really like
to track race and side queens and Jacks
I guess the top process is something
like you know if I have queens and I run
into Asian stockings I'm just gonna get
stacked anyway so I might as well just
get the money now protect my hand
against uh SK so if I had to guess that
that's probably why they really like to
check race this type of head so can you
imagine if you now meet the mistake of
um like bad thing nice and tense and
then checking Aces and Kings even though
technically against a static GTO
opponent it's not really a serious error
right since ultimately Asus is a
different dependent check right
intensive Knights are different
depending and checking and but against
uh specifically against an opponent with
track raising queens and Jacks all the
time he's actually going to
unconsciously be exploiting you right he
might not be trying to exploit any
specific mistake in in your game where
you might not have the right reasons to
chat raise the hand like greens but he's
still going to be exploiting you at the
end of the day because ultimately you're
making this mistake that makes the EB of
raising with Queens much higher than
before okay so I think in practice
especially it's pretty uh important to
get this right especially for inside
Kingston basically PR bets so I think
there's even some
EB difference between uh like betting
and checking
does it
I mean as it seem like it's huge right
but uh yeah with this kind of plan
usually you don't want to be like
checking it too much right because it uh
you're up against a good opponent and
your opponent sees you check a headlight
decisions of Kings uh it can be pretty
sure that you're making this mistake and
then you know you should be able to come
up with the appropriate adjustments as
well yep so even more important to to
bad hand side Aces uh to fire dye sensor
Isis over the week of a person in
practice quiz question number two how
should we address our probing strategy
against someone who is betting all of
the over pairs on the top right so not
just the we go over parents are they
actually better no vehicle repairs as
well as a stronger over pairs so option
number one block all of our air right
and option number two that bigger and
more often with one pair handset of
course I'm referring to the Turner after
the [ __ ] was check check if the turn is
a low card right what kinds of
adjustments should we make so I'm gonna
pull up the poll
foreign
[Music]
but the point is to choose the one that
you think is the most correct uh it
turns out the most precise answer would
be big or it's a bit bigger and more
often with one pair heads so let me
justify my my answer why is it not
technically correct to just be popping
all of your air so let me pull it up
like an example of the situation or
let's say the thought is uh like nine
seven tree right this is uh hijack
versus a kind of tree bed if the thought
goes check check and again you know the
assumption is that your opponent is not
checking enough of these uh over pairs
okay uh if you look at the composition
of his uh checking range it needs to
have like about 17 over pair which is
quite a big uh percentage
right
um so let's say he completely lacks all
of these open pairs like if we were to
play a strategy where we overdraft on
the on the turn right with the idea that
our opponent you know it's kind of kept
at Ace iron you cannot really be calling
us that often right that that's a little
bit of a logical leap in a week right
just because your opponent is Cap
doesn't necessarily mean that he's over
voting imagine if you block all of your
air or a small size or the same sizes
that the solver is using and mostly
bathing like 20 and 30 but even if your
opponent doesn't have over pairs to
defend with right it's still going to
have plenty of hand side is killing his
Queen Asia okay and it's actually really
easy to uh imagine an opponent who's
calling too much in this scenario right
on the board of
9733 especially you know the turn is
really good for for your opponent's a
size where they now have like a little
bit more shoulder value than before
someone might even reason that the board
being double tutorial and you're gonna
have like plenty of gloves right so
people might start to get a little bit
stickier with hands like asking any
screen right and now it's going to kind
of backfire right you just Bluff like
everything for for a small size in a
situation where your opponent is
potentially calling too much yeah no no
it turns out that we are the ones who
was getting uh who are getting exploited
so instead of just bluffing all of your
air a much better adjustment is to first
of all understand that all of these one
pair hands in our range right top pair
under pair second pair they're going to
have much more Equity than before the
reason why a headlight each only has 64
Equity is because of just 17 of over
pairs uh in your opponent's checking
range right once you take that away
right each is going to be pretty close
to the next and hence that has more
Equity they simply just want to be
bigger I know it sounds kind of
counter-intuitive right knowing that
your opponent is kept at Ace King you
might imagine that you know these hands
should go uh smaller you know to try and
induce a call from Ace King right but
that's not quite the way that it works
in theory okay if we think our hand is
strong enough the bad big then we just
it doesn't matter if it can is calling
or folding because even if let's say we
bet three quarters and in a situation
where our opponent doesn't have any over
pairs for sure he needs to depend with
more Ace King but let's say if he's not
willing to do that he's not willing to
call with his Queen right he would just
like quite literally be folding well not
quite everything I guess it's going to
have stuff like flashers but it's going
to be massively over folding right and
then now our blasts are going to go up
easy because for sure we're gonna have
plenty of Buffs that are also going to
size up along with our value and that's
a much better adjustment than just
bluffing Olive air for the same size
that the solver was using uh previously
so it's kind of a catch-2 situation for
your opponent right as long as you are
betting like quite big with your winter
hands or you're mixing in the
appropriate amount of gloves it doesn't
actually matter whether he calls with
his king or he falls with this is if he
wants to call it then of course you're
pretty happy in the sense that he's
paying off all of your value hands right
even having like seven eggs or pocket
success you can get quite a bit of value
if your opponent will call at least give
me a screen versus like a three-quarter
spot size bed if you want to fold these
hands and that's fine as well obviously
your one by hands are going to get less
value but that's going to be more than
compensated for by all of these gloves
that are just going to go up in GB okay
last common mistake right not turning
enough one power into so in position
three bets like I mentioned previously
they're really strong they're really
linear right and imagine if the board is
like ace high or King High especially
we're going to absolutely smash the bot
and even if we make a really small bet
very often what you see is uh on like a
double probably bar out of position just
folding like every single mid pocket
pair versus a 20 bet or something
ridiculous like that and it's really
just because our range is way too strong
it connects way too well with the board
okay so as a result of this if you
imagine in the lines where out of
position check call positive thought
right from the tree batters perspective
a lot of his vampire hands are actually
not going to have that much Showdown
value right so let's take a look at an
example of this this ace10 High board
for example like hijacked three bet
versus Under the Gun so hijack he's
expecting something like 20 pot on the
top right on the board on the flop of
Ace 10 news and look at utg's uh
defending Bridge right you cannot even
call hence like nice and eight and seven
so if it's such a tiny bed even like Jax
is folding uh most of the type okay and
one of the results of this is that when
you go to the thread from the hijacks
perspective from the crew battles
perspective a hand light 10x is actually
not going to have that much uh Showdown
value I don't think it's an end as
that much uh sorry let's say I mean like
like most of your middle patterns King
then without the flash roll is only
going to have 31 Equity so it looks like
a marginal n looks like it has a little
bit of shutdown value
but actually it's just as good as like
any other block then we arranged okay
and as a result right this is one of the
reasons why esans are getting blocked so
after that it's not even like a low
frequency even King 10 is actually
pretty close to a job before without the
flash draw in fact it seems like without
the threshold we are even more inclined
to uh go for the the turnback I think I
think this is happening because we don't
block like some of the hints that we're
trying to get value from
because our opponent probably still has
to call as like Jack 10 or cards right
so we don't really want to have the
heart right yes you get a little bit
less value from the install object 10 as
well as uh n9k but that's not not the
main point where the main point is is
just that to understand a lot of these
one by hand whether whether it's uh
second pair whether it's some of the
lower pocket pairs they actually don't
have a lot of photo value so there's no
reason like why we shouldn't be turning
them into uh and what I've noticed is
also that especially when there's a big
gap between the ace and the 10th there's
even more reason to be blackpink with
hands like King dead right because when
you look at your opponent's response
right there's actually this region of
like greens and Jacks right that uh you
can Target with bad you know these hands
are pretty much always holding the turn
right so in a way when you bet something
like King 10 it's almost like uh like a
value block where you're folding queens
and Jacks for sure you're folding out uh
even some of the weaker asacs right and
then at the same time you can even get
uh
uh little bit of value from some of the
worst uh 10x and then your opponent's
range right so it's not like a lot of
value I think because that's because our
bed is a little bit bigger right but
there are like some situations
situations where we're betting a little
bit smaller right for three quarters
part uh again you see the same kind of
trend whenever we're betting
spot here uh same logic but we fold out
greens drags uh in this case I guess we
we don't fold out like that much uh top
there okay but uh the good thing is that
we actually get a little bit more thin
value right probably and slide checked
in and 109 that are calling a little bit
more often now okay so that's uh just a
neat little mechanic that I noticed
right when there's a big gap between the
top and the middle card like middle part
is a really nice and good bluff with uh
if you take away the scap that's it this
is king queen G6 so I really doubt we
would be that uh interested and laughing
hence Queen
all right or a list of frequency is
going to be much uh lower than before
right because it just doesn't have like
the same kind of
um effect whereby you maybe get call I
guess you still get caught by like
something worse pre next but the problem
is that there's no pocket press below
the the king and the queen that are
folding so it really hurts the
efficiency of the span right so same
thing you know at the board was
something like Ace King height I really
doubt the king queen would be uh that in
here I can maybe rip the threshold where
we can still afford to buffer this
anyway but you know middle pair with no
draw is pretty much a pure check at this
point right so the bigger the Gap right
it is 10 High King 10 high you've been
something like green 10 higher I would
imagine like middle pair should get bad
uh pretty often so let's return to this
uh seven five reduce point and I think
earlier on I touched on the fact that
when you better hand like eight or nine
on the thumb it has a little bit of a
blood element in the sense that utg is
supposed to pull a little bit of nice or
tense so this should also kind of tell
you that you bet any sense and you get
call right there's no reason why you
shouldn't uh continue buffing on on the
third which is not to say that you want
to block the turn all the time obviously
that depends on like what exactly the
turn is but you should at least consider
uh turning your hand into a bluff right
and should at least understand that your
hand no longer has that much for no
value so that say if the turn is at
three I mean it's actually again pretty
interesting to see that eights and nines
are now just uh pure bets and again it's
I wouldn't say it's a pure block where
there's actually a little bit of a value
element as well because when you better
handle like three quarters per you're
definitely folding out a lot of better
hands right so just me or meal happen in
practice right so important to to keep
that in mind and to know like when not
to do this against but in theory our
opponent is supposed to fall with a
bunch of checks and dance and then he's
actually uh calling us
with some of these ends like pocket
Sixers and five six or Ace five that all
of them have now picked up a street draw
so it's quite quite a nice option to
have with knights where just to bet
three quarter spot on the turn and then
check back most of the rivers and take
your Showdown against hence like 5x and
then pocket sixes yeah okay so let's see
if you think that your opponent is not
turning these kinds of pants into a
block right
um I would say the main adjustment is
just to on the one hand you can see that
it's more likely to not
be bluffing enough especially on I think
the effect is maybe a little bit
stronger on a high bar and because he's
naturally going to be lacking gloves in
the the first place so if we go back to
the previous Ace telling U6 board where
we saw that hijacked and always turning
stuff like uh middle pair I'll get pairs
into a bluff if he's not blapping these
hands it's quite difficult to imagine
that he's going to be able to find
enough loves right because the syringe
already interacts so well with the bar I
even though he's blocking like most of
the Kingpin and King drag he still needs
to throw in a lot of this pocket pair
has to be balanced right so the most
obvious exploit would just be to fold
all of the hands that are indifferent
especially against the sort of very big
bet uh you're getting like pretty poor
products so your opponent has to throw
in even more Bluffs to make you
indifferent and it's quite difficult to
achieve if he doesn't realize that hence
I can't then I need to be duffing a lot
of the time all right so that would be
the main adjustment and I think it all
also does
affect the types of Love catchers that
you prefer to depend with so let's say
this was a king 10 hybrid instead
okay so hijack here is going to be
getting a little bit smaller so
technically a lot of your 10x hands and
your queen some Jacks are all going to
be indifferent okay uh but the reason
why they're different is because your
opponent is playing like this exact
strategy where he's turning he's
standing into a kind of uh value plan so
if he's not lapping hands like he said
and then let's say he's increasing the
frequency or some of the more natural
gloves like green Jack I um not not that
he has like that many of them but let's
say if he's somehow still able to
achieve the appropriate value Bluff
ratio it's just that it's black
selection the next hence like second
okay I think this is also going to
affect the the kinds of hands that we
prefer to call right because part of the
reason
why we defend something like queens and
Jacks like part of the EV is coming from
hand slide A10 they will bet the turn
and then check back the river if our
opponent doesn't have a analyzation and
his range is a little bit more like
polarized right to very strong hands and
pure Bluffs and then uh for sure we
would prefer defending hands like Jack
tank over hands like queens and Jacks
right but uh I would say there's quite a
minor point but the main thing to take
away from this as a whole is just to
understand that if the board is high
especially if ranges are really tight my
hijack versus utg it's pretty difficult
for people to be finding enough glass so
you always want to err on the side over
folding okay so in conclusion right
three main mistakes that tend to see a
lot are people betting too many week
over pairs so we definitely want to
favor batting the the stronger ones and
true bad pods when ranges are so tight
especially as if you're true betting
versus early position early position is
definitely going to have stuff like uh
queens and Jacks at some frequency so
quite quite a big Equity difference
whether you have Asus online a second
called in the sink betting to small or
low boards so what you can do is BET a
little bit bigger right if the board is
Rainbow probably I would go for
something like about two times to three
quarters right and then for two Zone
boards especially the more connected
ones you need to be sizing down a little
bit okay and then finally as Rangers get
director right the line between value
and Bluff tends to get observed right
whether you're betting something like
middle pair as whether it's a value bed
whether it's a blob it tends to not be
so clear right but whatever the case is
we definitely need to bet more of the
sensor at least in theory where
otherwise it's pretty difficult to find
enough gloves and the way to exploit
players we don't find enough of these
glasses of course is just too over full
okay so that's all I have for you guys
today uh yeah thanks everyone for
joining us today and I hope to see you
guys in the next webinar
