### TOPIC: 5 gto discoveries that changed how pros played poker
Have you ever wondered about how we
arrived at some of the strategies that
we now know to be GTO or to be optimal
in various scenarios? Well, throughout
the history of poker, there's been a big
evolution in what we thought was correct
in certain spots. In today's video,
we're going to discuss that in some
depth. Hi, Wizards. I'm Matt Hunt, and
we are talking about five GTO
discoveries that changed how pros played
poker.
Firstly, we have pushfold strategies.
Now, while Nash equilibrium concepts
have been applied to poker since the
1960s, the first pushfold software
actually didn't arrive until the mid
2000s. Its name was Sitandgo Wizard,
abbreviated to SMG Whiz, and it's a
significant predecessor to GTO Wizard,
of course, but it revolutionized the way
that players approached online sitandos,
small tournaments with a specific number
of players, which were one of the most
popular formats at the time. I
personally remember using this software
when I was grinding sit and goes in
maybe I would say 2010 or
2011. Understanding basic push fold
ranges for short stack spots was a
massive edge at that time, much more so
than it is now. And even though this
tool couldn't really even do ICM
calculations very well, it was still
incredibly powerful just in the way that
it helped players to understand chip EV
push fold strategies. Of course, these
days we have much more advanced
technology. But let's take a look at an
example in the GTO Wizard solution
archive to illustrate how a certain spot
might have been played before we really
had push fold tech available to us. So,
this right here is a basic MTT spot
chippy V, 10 big blinds deep, and it's
folded around to the button. Now, back
in the day in the pre-solver era, before
we even really had the power to
calculate pushfold ranges, we might not
necessarily have recognized that 10 big
blinds was a stack size where shoving
could be very effective. We might even
have thought that it was actually too
deep to be shoving because back in the
day when no limit holdem was pretty new
and limit holdem had been the standard
up to that point. Well, in limit holdem
you can't shove pre flop. So
understanding that we can actually shove
in this spot with more than 30% of hands
is not something that would have been
possible without the discoveries that
came from a solver or an early
calculator like SNG Whiz. And in this
spot, of course, these days, we can
actually even calculate that we should
limp some hands. And as you can see, the
solver doesn't want to limp here. In
fact, it doesn't want to min raise at
all. But if you went back 20 years, it
might have been common to see players
minraising in situations like this from
the button off of a 10 big blind stack
because we simply didn't have a lot of
understanding of push fold in how it
actually gets executed in real time. We
might have understood that at short
stacks you can go allin, but we really
didn't know exactly what the ranges
looked like. So that was an important
discovery that changed tournament poker
significantly over the years. Our second
GTO discovery is range betting. Now I
have put out a video about range betting
recently which you can go check out
which explores the concept in more
detail. But generally, if we're looking
at the history of this idea, post flop
solvers were the next evolution of GTO
strategy that came along after push
fold. And it was in the mid2010s, early
to mid2010s that we really started to
have access to post flop solvers. With
these solvers came a new wave of
innovations. And the simplest and most
straightforward of these was the
revelation that in fact you can just bet
all your hands in a lot of spots. Range
betting all boards for one-third pot
became a very effective strategy for
several years. It was actually pretty
common, particularly in cash games, to
see people taking a range bet 1/3
approach simply because they understood
that their opponents were not uh
continuing enough against this size,
were not check raising enough, and so
on. In fact, even nowadays, it won't do
that badly if you just range bet every
single board for a small size, and your
opponents will probably still make some
mistakes against it. So, this spot right
here that I've pulled up is a pretty
generic cash game spot. It's a 500 ml
6max spot with a 2.5x open. Lowjack
opens and the big blind defends and the
flop comes ace ace queen two hearts.
Now, clearly, as you can see here from
the betting frequencies, the solver is
choosing to essentially range bet here.
There's only 0.7% check. So that's
essentially a range bet. And this is
something that maybe 20 years back, even
15 years back, we probably would not
have recognized as being a range bet
board. It's ace ace queen. It is a board
that is naturally going to favor the pre
flop razor in a lot of ways. But it
might not have been that easy to
identify immediately that this was a
good range bet spot. In fact, we really
didn't have the terminology to even
explore it in those terms. We didn't
really talk about range betting back
then. And I say this as somebody who's
been around in poker for 15 years and
remembers what strategy discussions were
like back then. I can guarantee you the
idea of range betting did not exist
simply because the idea of a range was
still pretty new. So overall something
like this where we can range bet and in
fact we can use a range bet for half
potentially even here because there is a
good chunk of half potting in this sim
that would be something that was
completely unfamiliar until the advent
of post flop solvers allowed us to
discover that concept. So our third GTO
discovery that changed how pros played
poker is overbedding. Now, as solvers
became more widely used, what happened
is players were more aware of what the
most important later street strategies
were, and over betting was by far the
most significant of these because in a
span of 1 to two years, overbs went from
a very rare occurrence to being
extremely common place. Now, today, we
recognize that over betting is central
to our ability to maximize EV in many
spots, but back in the day, we simply
didn't. If you go back to 2010, 2012,
that kind of era, if you watch live
streams from that time period, you won't
find a lot of overbedding. You'll find
certain players that embraced the power
of overbedding and understood how it
could benefit their strategy, but you
won't find it being that common. But of
course, as solvers became more widely
used, it then became a crucial part of
anybody's strategy. So, let's take a
look at an example. So, this right here
is an example from our GTO Wizard
archive. It's a cash game spot. We open
in the cutoff at 100 bigs. Big blind
calls. We bet 33% on the flop and we get
called and then we see the turn. And
what we can do here is look at aggregate
reports for the turn. And as you can
see, there is a pretty good chunk of
overbedding being done here. 175% at
some
frequency, 125% at a pretty reasonable
frequency. And there's going to be
certain specific turn cards where the
overb is quite prevalent. It's quite a
significant part of the strategy. If we
filter for frequency here, we can see
that the most common cards for the over
bet are going to be a jack, a 10, an
eight, a queen, cards like that that are
pretty much just a turn brick. And the
over bet by extension then is going to
be a pretty important part of the
overall game tree for this player in
position on the turn. It's going to
really help to maximize EV in many
spots. If you do eliminate overbedding
from your strategy altogether, there's
plenty of situations where it actually
does cost you quite a bit of EV. And
back in the day, this is something we
didn't really know about until we
started working with solvers. We didn't
really understand that not overbing in a
spot that is an overb spot costs a lot
of EV. So this was a big discovery that
really influenced the way that basically
anybody who really studies poker
seriously was approaching and uh
reflecting upon the game in very
specific scenarios. Now our fourth GTO
discovery is blockers and unblockers.
Now while PLO players have been pretty
aware of blockers for a long time, the
concept only really arrived in no limit
hold within the 2010s. solvers have
taught us that certain specific
combinations of hands have very powerful
bluffing properties in some spots and of
course bluff catching properties as
well. They've also taught us that
unblocking our opponent's folding hands
can also be valuable, especially when
we're choosing our turn and river
bluffs. There are plenty of spots where
the solver will choose to barrel the
turn with a certain hand just because it
unblocks all the folds. Let's take a
look at a spot where blockers are very
relevant. So, this is the same board
texture that we just looked at. And in
this case, we didn't over bet the turn.
We bet 75% of pot. Now, we get to the
river and the river is a three of
hearts, which puts a straight and a
flush up on the board. Now, when it
checks to the in position player here on
the river in the cutoff, you can see
that a pretty decent chunk of bluffs
here are going to contain the ace of
hearts. In fact, the Ace of Hearts Jack
or the Ace of Hearts King, for example,
actually has the power to go as big as
an all-in shove here. And if we look at
the construction of the range here in
this spot for the Inosition player, if
we go to filters and we go to trash
hands and we take a look at the hands
that are bluffing at the highest
frequencies, well, take a look at how
they're constructed. The ace of hearts
or the king of hearts is a high
frequency bet here. In fact, these
combos actually even have the ability to
bet way bigger than you might expect at
some frequency. Ace of hearts king is
over betting a pretty good chunk of the
time. It's betting the 87% fairly often.
And in fact, if we look at Ace of Hearts
Jack, there's actually a little bit of
all-in shoving going on here. Something
like Ace of Hearts Jack of Diamonds
wants to jam all in for 4x pot at some
frequency here. So clearly this is
something that is greatly affected by
the blocking properties of the hand.
Being able to block the nut flush and
being able to block the back door
straight is very very powerful here. So
that ace of hearts blocker even though a
PLO player and even most no limit hold
players would be able to identify that
this is a pretty good card to have. We
didn't really know before we had solver
techch available how powerful it could
be. We didn't really know that there are
certain spots where if you have that not
blocker, you can really just make a huge
bet and put tons of pressure on your
opponent in certain kinds of spots. A
great advantage of studying with solvers
right there. So, our final GTO discovery
here is the concept of equity denial.
Now, it's only really been in recent
years, the last 5 years or so, that
we've really been able to flesh this
concept out in the right way. What we
see is that frequently solvers are going
to prioritize value betting larger on
earlier streets with vulnerable value
hands. And in the past, players might
have done this for protection. But while
we know that protection is strategically
relevant, these days we recognize that
it's more about overcards than it is
about draws. Pricing out the draw,
giving them a bad price with a flush
draw, it's not really something we can
do because they're just not likely to
fold the flush draw one way or the
other. They're not supposed to. But they
are supposed to fold their overcard
hands sometimes. And quite often that
makes a big difference. Let me show you
what I mean. So this is another cash
game sim just like the one we looked at
previously. It's cut off big blind 100
big blinds and the flop is 1085. But in
this case what I've done is I've run it
with GTO Wizard AI and I've simplified
the flop strategy to two sizes of half
pot and full pot. And what we can do is
if we hone in on, for example, an
overpair hand, we can see that pocket
jacks has a significantly stronger
preference for betting here than any of
the other pocket pairs. Jacks is going
to never check, while queens is checking
a little bit, kings a little bit more,
and aces maybe almost half the time. And
in addition to that, Jax is more
inclined to bet bigger than any of the
other pocket pairs as well. Jax is
actually favoring maybe a 50/50 split of
these two sizes judging by uh what we
can see here. Now, if we look at the
equity of these hands, it's not that
different. Equity reading, jacks 76.9,
aces 80.2. So, they're very similar
strengths of hands, but if we look at
how they fit into the overall strategy,
there's a good chunk of hands that are
favoring this larger bet, and it's a lot
of vulnerable value. It's ace 10, king
10, pocket jacks, hands like that. Even
pocket fives as well, although that's
mostly just for pure value more so than
because it's vulnerable. But you can see
that the vulnerable value, the ace 10,
king 10, pocket jacks, that type of hand
actually has a bit of a preference for
betting bigger. This is to deny the
equity to some of those overcard hands.
Because even though those overcard hands
are not drawing very live against our
hand, what happens is when we narrow
down the calling range on the flop, it
actually allows us to have a little bit
more leeway to value bet more liberally
on later streets because we're less
concerned about our opponent turning top
pair. So it actually creates a
circumstance where certain turn cards
that would otherwise be making us a
little bit cautious no longer do make us
cautious because we bet bigger and all
their overc cards actually folded. So
this is kind of an interesting concept.
It's not an easy one to apply in a lot
of detail, but it is one that we really
understand now that we can run solver
sims that have multiple sizes and
particularly now that we can use GTO
Wizard AI to very rapidly run sims that
can test different sizes against each
other. We can see these trends emerge in
terms of the sizes that the solvers
prefer in various spots. So, that's
going to be it for this video. Those are
the five GTO discoveries that changed
how pros play poker. I can only imagine
what GTO discoveries are going to exist
in future that we'll figure out once we
have even more advanced solver tech
available. And you can be sure that when
that tech is available, GTO Wizard is
going to be right at the forefront of
putting that technology out there and
making it accessible for you guys. So, I
hope you like this video. If you do want
more content of a similar nature, please
check out my own channel, Poker Fluency.
I'll be doing daily coaching sessions up
on YouTube every weekday going forward.
and I hope to see some of you there.
Please do check out this video right
here that you can see linked if you'd
like to see some other content of mine
here on our YouTube channel. And in the
meantime, I'll be back soon with another
video. Thanks everybody and good luck.
