### TOPIC: 5 tips on how to study poker
hello everyone this is sal acosta for
gta wizard and this is going to be a
video about five tips on how to get
better at studying poker
this is a very sensitive topic amongst
most poker players poker enthusiast
professionals
because it can be very overwhelming and
confusing deciding how to spend or study
time we have so many notes to study so
many different concepts poker is such a
complex and big game that sometimes
it's very overwhelming to decide exactly
what direction we should take
and i hear a lot of the time and i have
the experience myself of sitting in my
chair
preparing myself to study and not being
very sure of what to do and sometimes
even procrastinated because of that and
also becoming a little bit frustrated
because you're not being productive
enough
so hopefully with these five tips you're
going to be able to solve that problem
and spend your time in the most
productive way that you can
so the first tip is a very common tip
that gets thrown out in every discussion
about
poker study which is focus on the most
common spots this is the most obvious
one but i had to include this one here
because it makes a lot of sense and with
the current context of a
insane platform like we have here at gta
wizard that offers the entire game tree
for us to browse it can be very tempting
to spend time on some very unique type
of situations that are not going to add
too much to your understanding and to
your ev so focusing on the most
important spots is really relevant and
those are going to be situations that
involve the button and the blinds okay
so you're going to be playing most of
your hands from the button and the
blinds so it's important that you
prioritize those situations okay single
raised pots and three bed parts are the
ones that you should go with so but very
speak blind but very small blind through
that pot but the very speed blind
through that part all those situations
are going to be both very common and
very relevant to your ring rate so make
sure you prioritize them in your study
all right
the second tip is one that is hopefully
going to allow you to solve that problem
of getting frustrated that you don't
know what you should be doing well if
you don't know what you should be doing
don't spend your energy feeling bad
about that just go do something all
right and what i recommend you to do is
spend some time practicing right time
spent practicing is not time uh poorly
spent is time very well spent so if you
don't know what to do if you're like
interaction if you don't know exactly
what you should be
doing with your study time just go for
example here to the full hand practice
mode this is going to allow you to
practice a hand from the beginning to
the finish and obviously this is going
to give you insight on how to play
better poker because you're going to be
getting immediate feedback on your
actions okay so instead of spending
energy and getting frustrated that you
don't know what to do and then
you look at a clock and it's already one
hour pass of your study time just
don't waste time with that just go
straight to the practice mode and
practice at hand so you can for example
prioritize those situations that we said
but there's big blind singular spot and
you can play a hand and by doing this
you're going to be doing a very good
uh service to your ev and to your
understanding because there's no way
it's going to be
not useful for you okay so make sure you
spend some time studying practicing if
you don't know what to do
third tip is a very relevant tip that as
well can save you a lot of time and a
lot of frustration
which is don't try to memorize
frequencies focus on understanding we
see that a lot of people get overwhelmed
with the solver strategy and they shoot
themselves in the foot by making things
even more complex by trying to memorize
frequencies okay it's really really hard
i would say impossible but maybe to some
people it is still possible but for most
people it's not going to be
feasible or even productive to try to
spend time memorizing frequencies so
instead of just staring at a grid for
example a button verse big blind a
random board and they're trying to
memorize okay this hand passed this
amount of the time
don't do that focus on understanding
focus on
realizing what are the incentives that
goes behind those strategies and you can
do this multiple ways one of the best
ways by looking at the accurate
distributions but more on that later the
point of this tip is don't really focus
on memorizing focus on understanding
this is really important not necessarily
a practical tip because i'm not telling
you how to do that but i'm definitely
telling you what not to do what you
should not be doing is trying to
memorize that king nine suited bets
86 of the time here okay this is not the
way to go
third tip very important one is spend
some time building heuristics okay this
is different to memorizing and we're
gonna talk about that so memorizing is
trying to say that you're going to play
this way at this frequency in this
situation and you're trying to really
memorize some very unique uh
instances of strategy what heuristics
does is
you kind of bucket similar spots
together and you build simple
instructions that you can
follow to play better strategies so by
taking a look at aggregator reports you
can do just that aggregator reports are
very very useful at building heuristics
or to the purpose of building heuristics
because they present you with average
data so by looking at the average data
of how the solver plays you can build
very simple instructions on how to play
certain types of word textures so let's
say for example that you want to get
better at playing ace high boards so
just go here in the top right corner you
check the highest card a's here for the
filter and it's going to show you the
aggregated frequencies four a's high
boards on this particular node so you
see for example that on a high board you
should be checking 52 percent of the
time on average this is really useful
because next time you play an ace high
board you know that on average you
should be checking half of your range so
by knowing exactly how on average your
range plays allows you to play better
your giving hand remember that in poker
you're not playing hand versus range
you're playing range versus range so
knowing how your entire range plays
certainly makes you better at playing
your unique hand okay so spend some time
on aggregate reports to build good
heuristics that you can use in game so
what frequencies should be taking
certain actions with roughly
and what strategic options make the most
sense with your with your distribution
you shouldn't try to memorize this as i
said but having a starting point of your
strategy and
how to execute your strategy in game is
very useful because it saves you a lot
of time and energy and of course makes
you play better
the final tip i have is again
not a very practical one because it's
not going to tell you necessarily
exactly what to do but it's going to
tell you again what not to do one of the
better things you can do for your game
and for your career as a poker player is
focus on understanding so what i
encourage you to do is expose to expose
yourself to more data other than
strategy i feel like a lot of people
including myself in the past and my
students would spend a lot of time
staring at grids and this of course is
good because it allows you to
integrate patterns on how different
board textures play and how different
range distributions play but again this
is mostly about memorizing or building
heuristics so instead you should focus
more on understanding what's going on
and you can do this by
spending more time really digging
through what other ranges like so i
really recommend you spend a lot of time
in the ranger step
use the equity buckets here to really
understand how the different ranges are
constructed and you see that the more
you get better at realizing how both
ranges are distributed the easier it's
going to be for you to derive what
should be the correct strategy so i
really encourage you to spend more of
your time taking a look at the equity of
both ranges the view of both ranges how
the equity buckets are distributed for
both players what's the active
distribution graph for both players who
has the advantages so really go deep
into a given hangar a given spot and
really try to understand why the
strategy look like the way he does
instead of just spending multiple hours
starting at a grid which of course is
not
uh not useful it can definitely help you
get better at playing poker but you see
that you learn a lot more and get better
much faster if you pay attention to the
whys if you really try to understand why
certain strategies are the way they are
so that's it these are the five tips
hope you guys enjoyed
and i see you later
you
