### TOPIC: gto poker quiz
hello Wizards today we've prepared a GTO
quiz so you can test your skills let's
face it GTO can be complicated that's
why we've prepared 10 questions so you
can test your knowledge and rate your
results at the end of the quiz tally
your correct answers and see how you did
first question your opponent chubs five
into a pot of 10 chips what do your pot
odds tell you
[Music]
the correct answer is a you need at
least 25% Equity to call Pot odds at its
core just say that if you put in five
chips you need to win at least five
chips out of that new pot right you put
in five the new pot will be 10 + 5 + 5 5
/ 20 is 25% so we need to win at least
25% of the time in order to break even
on a call second question your opponent
bets five chips into a pot of 10 what is
your minimum defense
frequency the correct answer is a
67% what is minimum defense frequency
MDF simply says how often you need to
defend in order to make your opponent's
zero Equity Bluffs break even so in this
case if we defend two 2/3 of our range
the expected value of bluffing is zero
making their Bluffs indifferent between
Bing and
checking question three you make a half
pot bed on the river let's assume you're
perfectly polarized what percentage of
your range should be
Bluffs the answer is B
25% that is to say 25% of our betting
range should be Bluffs this range lays
the correct pot odds for a half pot bet
bluffing 25% of the time means that they
have exactly the right pot odds to call
and their Bluff catchers are perfectly
indifferent between folding and calling
if we were to Bluff more often they
could simply always call their Bluff
catchers and if we were to Bluff less
often they could simply always fold so
this range construction is the most
efficient question four you bet five to
10 on the river how often does your
opponent need to fold for you to have a
break even
[Music]
Bluff the answer is C
33% that is to say if they fold at least
a third of their range you'll break even
on a bluff this quantity is called Alpha
and it's simply 1 minus MDF Alpha can be
calculated toing doing a simple risk
reward calculation multiply the
probability that they fold times the pot
that's your reward and subtract the
probability that they call times the bet
that's your risk if they fold 33% of the
time your EV with a bluff is zero so how
does one handle all of this math in
actual play well the truth is that once
you've worked with these numbers for a
while it just kind of becomes automatic
but in the meantime you can use a simple
bet sizee chart so for example take this
chart you know that for pot siiz bet pot
odds are 33% the minimum defense
frequency and Alpha are 50% and the
value to Bluff construction on the river
is 2/3 value 1/3 Bluff question five
indifference what does it mean to be
indifferent in
[Music]
poker the answer is D when different
actions have the same
EV indifference doesn't mean zero EV and
it doesn't mean you don't care
indifference simply means that two
actions have the same EV now this is
pretty important in poker because a lot
of Game Theory comes down to the
principle of indifference for example
when we bet half pot while bluffing 25%
of the time we're making villains Bluff
catchers indifferent between calling and
folding that is to say the EV of a call
is the same as the Eevee of a f fold now
they defend 2/3 of their range to make
our Bluffs indifferent between betting
and checking that is to say our Bluffs
have the same EV with a bet that they do
checking back question six range
morphology how would you describe the
difference between these two
[Music]
ranges the left side can be considered
polarized while the right side is linear
now in poker it's often easier to talk
about the overall shape of a range
rather than trying to describe each and
every combination the term polarized
denotes a range that consists of very
strong value and Bluffs linear describes
a range that's top down value to medium
strength hands without Bluffs a
condensed range or sometimes a
depolarized range consists of mostly
middling hands without many weak hands
or many strong hands a merged range
describe something that's somewhere
between polar and linear consisting of
very strong hands a very weak hands and
a few midling strength hands as well
question seven how does solvers
calculate
GTO the answer is B players take turns
exploiting each other until they reach
an equilibrium solvers have no idea what
the word poog mean they don't know what
balance is they never heard of MDF
solvers are simply EV maximizing
algorithms the thing is you can't find
Nash equilibrium in one go you need to
iterate back and
forth start with two players A and B fix
player A's strategy and let player B
exploit them now fix player B's new
strategy and let player a exploit them
repeat this process back and forth and
the strategy will become less and less
exploitable until it reaches and
equilibrium question eight how does the
GTO strategy gain
EV the answer is D GTO gains when the
opponent takes a minus EV action that
should never be played now this is a
contentious question some people believe
GTO gains anytime the opponent deviates
but that's simply not true for example
GTO won't punish mixing mistakes if your
opponent mixes incorrectly you need to
adapt your range to exploit that in
theory mixed actions always have the
same EV against the fix GTO strategy
similarly just because the opponent
takes an action that is never used in
the solution does it necessarily mean
that action is lower EV GTO only gains
when the opponent takes a minus EV
action that should never be played it's
what we call a blunder or a pure
mistake question n when is the following
statement true your ranges strategy
affects your hand
[Music]
strategy see this is only true when
villain can adapt their
strategy your hands EV is a function of
your opponent's strategy if they can
adapt then that means that if you change
your range they can change their
strategy which changes our hands evv as
a consequence if your opponent is unable
or unwilling to change their strategy
for example playing against a fixed GTO
bot then changing our range has no
impact on our individual hands EV we can
simply maximize each hand in a vacuum
against that fixed strategy this is why
a bot doesn't punish mixing mistakes
those kind of mistakes can only be
punished by adapting your strategy which
a fixed bot won't do the 10th and final
question which of the following
statements about blockers is false
B blockers change how often you'll be
dealt different hands in your range
which changes your frequencies is simply
not correct think about the way blockers
work you're using your whole cards to
gain information about your opponent's
range blockers don't interact with your
own range you can't block your own range
no instead you block your opponent's
range now that's why whenever you're
working with blockers or working with a
solver you should go into your
opponent's range to see how holding or
removing certain cards from that range
changes their strategy so how many
questions did you get correct if you got
Z to three questions right you're a
muggle you're not magical yet keep
grinding you'll get there four to six
questions you are an apprentice 7 to
eight questions you're a mage if you got
nine or 10 questions you are a GTO
wizard that's it for the video guys
please join our Discord if you'd like to
discuss the theory there some more I
know that some of the later questions
were a little contentious we' be happy
to discuss it there and as always like
comment subscribe hit the Bell let us
know how we did and if you want to see
more of these questions going forward
that's it and take care
