### TOPIC: gto vs exploitative poker
hello and welcome today's lecture is
about GTO versus exploitative poker now
most people when they think of GTO and
exploitive they think these are opposite
Styles they're adversarial bingera you
either do one or the other but this
couldn't be further from the truth in my
opinion these two Styles complement each
other and in fact I'd go so far as to
say one is blind without the other
there's no such thing as a truly
exploitative player or a truly GTO
player everyone's playing somewhere in
between and you can't really understand
one without understanding the other so
in today's lecture we're going to go
over what is GTO what is exploitation we
talk about Nemesis strategies we'll talk
about how GTO actually makes money and
then we're going to follow up that with
several toy game and real life examples
to help you improve your play so first
we need to answer the question of what
is GTO and what is exploitative GTO is a
balanced play style that seeks to
minimize its leaks it conforms to the
principles of Nash equilibrium and it
essentially tries to maximize a fixed
strategy exploitative on the other hand
is a dynamic play style that seeks to
attack your opponent's imbalances it
adapts to different opponents and it
carries a risk of counter exploitation
GTO is designed to be unexploitable
meaning that the best possible strategy
against GTO is GTO exploitative on the
other hand can potentially gain more
versus an imbalanced opponent however
for every risk you take you also carry a
risk of being counter exploited the
further you stray from equili ibrium
bigger the risk and also the bigger the
reward now these two may seem
adversarial but they're two sides of the
same coin you see GTO is informed by and
created by the underlying potential
exploitative Dynamics on the flip side
solid exploitative poker uses GTO as a
baseline from which to recognize and
attack imbalances and you can never
truly understand one strategy without
understanding the other you need at
least some basic exploitative principles
to understand where the is coming from
for to understand why GTO works in the
first place and conversely you need a
solid baseline from which to recognize
imbalances so for example how can you
say your opponent is too value heavy or
too Bluff heavy if you don't know what
the correct amount of value heaviness is
right you need some sort of common
ground in order to recognize when your
opponent is deviated from that we need
to understand how GTO strategies are
made and this is important to
understanding what I mean by underlying
potential exploitative Dynamics so start
with two Bots we've got bot a and Bot B
and we'll give them completely random
strategies they'll just pick every
action at an equal frequency with every
hand you know no regard for strategic
poker at all now we're going to fix
player A's strategy what do I mean by
this I mean we're going to lock that
strategy in place so that they can't
adapt and we're going to let player B
exploit that fixed random strategy so
they'll adjust to try and get the most
out of player a now we're going to fix
player B B's new exploitative strategy
and let player a exploit that and then
we're going to fix player A's new
strategy and let player B exploit that
and repeat this cycle over and over and
over again until we approach Nash
equilibrium as we do this the potential
to exploit A or B will decrease we call
this Nash distance and as the Nash
distance decreases you approach
equilibrium until you reach a point
where no player can really exploit the
other so when I say underlying
exploitative Dynamics what I mean is
every GTO solution is built on top of a
set of potential exploits these A and
B's going back and forth and in order to
understand why the GTO solution behaves
as it does you need to understand
principles of exploitation which brings
me to my next Point GTO is built on
exploitative principles so Nash
equilibrium States no player can gain by
unilaterally changing their strategy in
other words when everyone's playing GTO
you cannot gain by deviating from GTO so
in order to solve the question why does
the solver do X why does it do the thing
you have to answer the question because
if it didn't do the thing then the
opponent can exploit them by doing this
thing why does the silver do X because
if it didn't opponent can exploit by
doing Y and this is fundamental to all
solver studies so let's go over a very
simple example here we've got a 500 NL
cache game small blind RFI chart and we
can see it opens a good chunk of its
hands but it's also mixing opens with
several hands that have zero EV now why
on Earth should you open a hand that
adds literally zero EV to your strategy
well if small blind were to Simply fold
all of these zero EV hands you know King
8 87 ace4 Jack 3 53 suited if they were
to just fold all of that they're playing
too tight and what would happen is that
big blind could adapt their strategy by
playing a bit tighter which would cost
small blind value with the top of their
range conversely if all of these hands
were opened well then big blind could
adapt their strategy by continuing wider
raising and calling more which would
cost you value with the bottom of your
range and so the way to maximize the
strategy is going to have some zero EV
opens right and this is what I mean by
the underlying exploitative Dynamics in
order to understand why we open these
hands why you play any zero EV hands you
have to understand that if you don't do
this the opponent can adapt let's talk
about exploitation for a moment so I
said earlier exploitation is blind
without a Baseline and I think a lot of
players particularly those that you know
aren't really familiar with GTO will
disagree with this but the thing is like
I said earlier how can you recognize if
you're opponent is too value heavy or
bluffing too much if you can't identify
the correct amount of value heaviness or
Bluff what you're actually doing is
you're playing by feel you're playing
according to feedback you receive from
your particular player pool which might
be you know too passive or too
aggressive or too loose or too tight or
whatever you're not identifying exploits
correctly what you're doing is you're
applying a subjective opinion on what is
the correct amount of you know top pair
plus that they should have for this line
versus their Bluffs or whatever and so
what this does is it leads to a lot of
misunderstandings about what correct
play should look like and it'll lead you
to not only miss exploits but Mis
evaluate your opponent's range in a lot
of spots so how do you exploit correctly
well first you need a baseline that is
the GTO strategy you need to identify
how they're deviating from that Baseline
and as part of this step you need to
evaluate your confidence in your read
you can't just go gung-ho based on you
know the very slightest intuition
without taking on a humongous amount of
risk so you do need to have some
confidence in your read before you
exploit correctly next you need to ask
yourself why is this a mistake why is
there deviation a problem and then
figure out how to increase that mistake
so let's go over a very very simple
River example so you can see what I mean
so this is a spin Ando 25 big line
effective spot where button opens big
blind
calls they've bet small on the Flop on
Ace 99 big blind calls checks to us on
the turn they've potted it on the turn
representing mostly trips plus some
strong top bear and
Bluffs and it checks to us on the river
so the strategy here is to Value bet
mostly trips Plus your very strongest
top pair and Bluffs so let's imagine
that big blind is not bluffing enough so
we'll take a look at these trash hands
here they're not including enough of
these weak hands in their River shoving
range they're just giving up okay why is
that a
mistake well if they're under bluffing
then we won't have the correct pot odds
to call with a lot of these marginal
Bluff catchers and we can increase that
mistake by folding more of these which
cost them value with the top of their
range these nutted hands will get C less
and therefore their value will decrease
conversely let's say they're bluffing
too much they're putting in all of these
Bluffs well in that case all of our top
pair and probably even some kingx is
going to have pot ODS to call so we can
increase their mistake by decreasing the
value of their Bluffs by calling more
and I understand this is a very very
simple example I promise you guys it
does get a little more complex
throughout the lecture uh I want to
start simple so that a wide range
audience can understand this and we're
going to move to more sophisticated
examples later in the lecture I should
also note that I'm not using any
particular format you see I've used
cache Spin and go we'll use a variety of
formats throughout this lecture as this
Theory applies to all formats so now
that we understand some of the basics of
exploitation let's talk about the
terminology now there are essentially
two main types of exploits we've got
reactive versus versus proactive
exploits reactive means adjusting after
your opponent has already deviated
proactive means anticipating their
mistake and changing your strategy
beforehand and both types are useful and
can be used let's talk about Nemesis
strategies next nemesis strategy is a
term from Game Theory and it essentially
means a maximally exploitative strategy
this is one that will perfectly counter
all of your opponent's mistakes
throughout the entire game trat you are
playing the perfect nemesis strategy to
their strategy conversely we can talk
about minimally exploitative strategies
or Min yes and I think this was first
coined in modern poker Theory by asito
this is a strategy that assumes your
opponent make a mistake on one specific
node and they'll play perfectly
everywhere else and the reason this
distinction is required is because multi
Street node locks are not really
commercially available they're very hard
to do correctly with any tool so what we
typically do is start with just locking
one street for example their flop seats
or their River check Rays one node and
we'll see how the strategy adjusts to
just that one node mistake these are
less risky because it assumes your
opponent can counter your strategy on
later streets if you're not careful and
they tend to lead to more robust
exploits that take on less risk so let's
move on to some common misunderstandings
some people will say GTO is only good
against other GTO players this argument
is just silly GTO is the best strategy
in a vacuum without reads it assumes
your competition is competent enough to
punish blunders so as a funny little
analogy I myself am a chess player and
if you're playing an exploitative style
here on your chess game you might think
okay I'm going to move my queen to H5
and then on my next move I'm going to
take this Pawn on F7 and Checkmate their
King supported by this bishop but a GTO
player will look at this and say no this
strategy is exploitable because the
Knight can simply take the queen right
and so the other thing GT does that's
important to recognize is it prevents
you from making massive blunders so some
people say you should never play GTO on
a low stakes game while it's true that
exploitative strategies have more
potential to gain versus weaker
opponents those weaker opponents will
also make more pure mistakes against the
GTO strategy both are winning against
weaker opponents it's just a matter of
how much they're winning by and as I
said understanding GTO enhances your
exploitative capabilities what's your
Baseline how are you exploiting if you
can't recognize their imbalances now
exploitative players might have some of
their own misunderstandings but so do
GTO players in fact a lot of GTO players
believe this myth that GTO gains anytime
the opponent deviates there's this
concept of passive exploitation meaning
that your fixed GTO strategy gains
simply because your opponent isn't also
playing GTO however it's important to
realize that GTO only gains against
certain types of mistakes we call these
pure mistakes it does not gain any money
from frequency mistakes that is to say
your opponent can deviate from the GTO
strategy and it won't make you money and
in fact given enough rake it can
actually cost you money in some spots
this is a really important Point guys
and this I think underlines a lot of
this lecture so how does GTO make money
then well like I said it makes money
through pure mistakes here we have a
blind versus blind situation small blind
has bet two on this queen Jack five flop
and we're on the big blind with 9h here
now with this hand if we were to shove
all in or fold that is a pure mistake
that strictly loses ev even if the small
blind does not adapt to exploit our
strategy however if we call raise seven
or raise 12 these actions are
indifferent meaning that they don't lose
EV against a fixed GTO strategy in fact
you could raise 100% of your 98 here and
you wouldn't lose EV as long as you
raised to an appropriate size you
wouldn't lose EV so long as small blind
wouldn't adjust and this is true for all
in different hands I'm going to get back
to that point for a moment but first I
want to talk about fixed versus Dynamic
strategies so I've mentioned these words
fixed and dynamic earlier a fixed
strategy simply means your opponent will
not adjust how they play or you will not
adjust how you play now GTO is by
definition a fixed strategy it's always
going to play its range the same way in
the same spot now sure it'll adjust on
different textures and against different
bet sizes and such but it's not going to
adjust adjust to its opponent a dynamic
strategy is one that adjusts based on
the opposition and most humans play a
dynamic strategy or somewhere in between
fixed and dynamic people tend to play
closer to a fixed strategy when they're
playing fastfold Zoom games
multi-tabling and they play more Dynamic
when they can Zone in on their opponents
such as non-anonymous games or heads up
games so here we have a board 1055 and
this one here is an MTT solution 40 big
blinds deep button open big blind call
on us I'm looking at the strategy plus
expected value for all hands in the
range and we can see that pretty much
everything's mixed in fact I'm going to
change this over to horizontal view
which shows every combination in range
I'm even going to group the BET sizes to
make it simpler it's either bets or
check we'll make it really easy we'll
notice that King seven here will either
bet or check and both of these have the
same expected value and this is true of
all mixed hands at least it ought to be
true now in practice solvers aren't
solved to perfect accuracy so sometimes
we see small deviations for example this
Ace 8 hand is you know 0.01 better as a
bet than a check if it were soled the
perfect accuracy these two by definition
would have the exact same EV that is a
hard law of Nash equilibrium so what
does this mean well let's imagine we
took every single mixed hand in range
which happens to be the entire
range and we just pure bet all of this
and let's imagine imagine big blind does
not adapt their
strategy big blind is a GTO bot they
just play the fixed GTO strategy they
will not adapt Will Button game the
answer is no the answer is their EV will
remain the same as long as they don't
blender on future streets that is now in
practice it's very difficult to play a
range bet correctly and then not blender
on a future Street they'll probably have
to check back a ton a lot of people
they'll just range bets and they don't
realize that when they do that they have
to check back like 70% on the turn but
anyway I'm getting off track here the
point is every single one of these hands
could bet against the GTO bot without
losing anything and conversely every
single one of these hands could pure
check 100% again without losing any EV
against the GTO strategy and so this is
what I mean by fix versus Dynamic
strategies now if we imagine that the
big blind was Dynamic meaning they could
adjust to our strategy when we bet that
could lose a ton of money betting here
could be punished by a ton of check
raising more calling less folding and
range checking could be exploited by big
blind checking more and playing more
defensively on the turn and so even
though range betting or range checking
is exploitable the GTO strategy will not
gain from those adjustments you need to
be able to adapt your range in the big
line to exploit a button range bet or a
button range check now you may think
that this lack of ability to gain from
in different hands is just a property of
GTO but it's not in fact this is a
property of all fixed strategies any
strategy that is unable to adjust cannot
gain from indifferent mixing mistakes
that your opponent makes whether it be
GTO or just some random garbage you're
playing they're going to have
indifferent hands in their range and
those hands can play however they like
as long as they're indifferent between
those actions and will not lose so this
is not just about GTO this is about
fixed versus Dynamic strategies
understanding that we can move on again
to how GTO actually makes money and like
I said before there are mixing mistakes
and pure mistakes now a mixing mistake
is anything with incorrect frequencies
like we saw in that last example a range
bet where they should be mixing these
are exploitable by an Adaptive opponent
but they are not punished by fixed
strategies and again GTO is a type of
fixed strategy pure mistakes are taking
any action that strictly loses EV
against the opponent's strategy even if
they don't adjust and so it's really
important to recognize the these two
types of mistakes one is a blender the
other is something that's punished only
if your opponent adapts to punish it and
their adaptation doesn't even have to be
intentional they could just be playing
their natural strategy you know say
you're a little Bluff heavy playing a
calling station their natural tendencies
can exploit yours in that sense okay
let's move on to a toy game experiment
so the remainder of this lecture is
going to focus on examples I'm going to
start with a toy game and we're going to
move progressively to real spots and
more sophisticated EXP exploits as we go
along so far everything's been basically
just the fundamentals so for those of
you who stuck with it prepare for the
more complicated stuff let's start with
this simple toy game it is a polarized
versus Bluff catcher toy game the stack
to pot ratio is one in other words one
player has either the pure nuts or pure
Bluff and the other player has a bluff
catcher we're on the river so the
polarized player is in position here's
an example hero either has Ace Ace or
queen Queen at equal frequency villain
has king king and the board is 333 deuce
deuce the pot is $10 and the stack is
$10 so let's start by just solving this
simple toy game and the way to do that
is just using pure math uh now if you
don't like math we've made this handy
little chart you can use to understand
some basic toy game Concepts and basic
GTO mathematics so it's a pot sized bet
that means that for a pot siiz bet we
need to lay 33% pot ODS another way to
say this is is we're laying two to one
this means we lay two value for every
one Bluff so if we want to bet all of
our ASAS 100% Ace a that means we want
to bet half as many Bluffs 50% of our
queen queen will bet and then we're
going to check back with 50% queen queen
as well okay so how should the opponent
defend well against a po- siiz bet they
should call according to the minimum
defense frequency 50% the reason they do
this is to make our Bluffs indifferent
they want to make our Queen Queen
indifferent between betting and checking
so King King
calls 50% of the time and that is the
solution to this toy game you can also
take a look at the value to Bluff
construction for a pot siiz bet it is
2/3 value 1/3 Bluff which is exactly
what we have here so how does that play
out well Hero's aace will always bet
because it's the nuts and so the
expected value is going to be the pot
plus half of villain stack because they
call half the time so 10 plus $5 $115
queen queen will win half time lose half
the time when it bets and it always
loses when it checks back its expected
value is $0 the total expected value
when you average these out is 7.5 King
King on the other hand is $0 facing a
bet however it always wins when we check
back with Queen Queen and since we're
checking back 25% of our range King King
wins $2.5 or 25% of the pot so this is
the GTO solution if both players play
correctly but who cares about toy games
I want to test your guys's understanding
of what happens when one of these
players deviates so hero shoves with a
perfectly balanced range as described
earlier 2/3 value 1/3 Bluff who gains if
villain always fults who gains if
villain always calls take a moment to
consider your answer and keep in mind
hero will not adjust to these tendencies
the answer is that no one gains and this
is because again hero does not adjust to
these Tendencies if villains always
folding of course they should Bluff more
and if villain's always calling they
should stop bluffing but because this is
a mixing mistake a frequency mistake and
not a pure mistake well you don't
actually gain anything how does that
play out well let's take a look at the
expected value the EV of aceace is now
$10 it always wins the pot but it never
wins F in stack because they don't call
they're calling 0% in this example the
Eevee of queen queen is $5 because they
always win the pot when they bet but
they're still checking back half the
time they're not adjusting to exploit
this over full so the total EV is
exactly as it was before
$7.5 now King King on the other hand it
again it's never calling but queen queen
is still going to check back half the
time which means a quarter of the time
King King will win the pot therefore the
Eevee remains exactly the same now what
if villain always calls well now the
expected value from Ace a increases from
$10 to $20 because they're always
winning villains call but the expected
value of Queens decreases
to5 because we're not getting any folds
these two again will average out such
that the total expected value is still
$7.5 King King on the other hand still
wins $2.5
because again queen queen checks back
half the time they're not adjusting okay
let's try a different example let's say
that villain always defends 50% of their
range no matter what who gains if hero
always Bluffs they just bet all of their
queen queen and all of their asay who
gains if hero never Bluffs they bet all
of their acay none of their Queens take
a moment to consider your answer
again the answer is no one wins the EV
remains exactly the same so what does
that look like well again we can just
consider how often villain is calling so
here we say we always Bluff now if
villain is calling 50% the Eevee of
Queens does not change right they're
going to win half the time they're going
to lose half the time when they bet and
therefore the Eevee is still zero again
as the eveve is $15 because half of the
time they're going to win villain's call
and they always in the pot total e is
7.5 villain on the other hand actually
they're going to win whenever they call
at least at some percentage because
Queens are over bluffing in this spot
therefore the total expected value is
still 2.5 so the eveve does not change
regardless and now we can say what
happens if hero never Bluffs we always
check back queen queen well again Aces
doesn't change because Kings is calling
it the same frequency and queens is zero
EV as a checkback anyway and so
regardless it's the same expected value
7.5 versus 2.5 and if you don't believe
me you can plug this toy game into any
solver and see it for yourself all right
so let's go on to example two here and
I've got six examples total so this one
is a spin Ino example let's bring it up
here I brought this one up earlier I
think yeah I did on Ace 99 where we bet
small on the Flop we bet pot on the turn
and then we get to River the run out is
a 95 deuce and so the strategy here is
to play something polarized using trips
and a little bit of top pair Plus for
value and using these hands as
Bluffs so this is very similar to that
toy game we just looked at where it was
you know Ace Ace and queen queen versus
King King in this case you've got the
value the Ace Ace and the Bluffs now
before we looked at what happens if no
one adjusts and we saw that no one
gained but now let's look and see what
happens if people adjust so let me bring
this up in pyio solver we've got some
cool stuff
here
okay so they check and we can see their
range is mostly going to be top pair a
few trips and some King
High and again we're betting with most
of our value and all of this stuff now
let's change one thing let's node loock
Queen Jack so that it always bets just
Queen Jack nothing else we'll leave
everything else exactly the same and
we'll let villain adapt to exploit
us so Queen Jack goes from I'll just
show you the difference here from
betting you know maybe half the time
total
to always betting everything else
remains
exactly the same right I haven't touched
any other hand in this range just one
hand well in the GTO
solution the original Baseline when we
bet of course they're going to call all
of their trips this is a shove by the
way what is it 80% they're going to call
all of their trips and they're
indifferent with their asex so you know
all of these asex hands are going to be
mixing calls and folds and they're going
to try and call enough that such that we
can't exploit them now let's go back
back to the other one
here this one all I've done is change
Queen Jack nothing else we chove and now
they're just range calling all of the
asex all of the trips all of the king
high are suddenly pure calls right huge
difference and in fact the betting
frequency didn't change much it goes
from like 55 to 58% total we're we're
barely touching this and the truth is
that equilibrium is extremely fragile
especially in these polarized spots on
the river
let me bring this back up again when we
shove here actually I'm going to bring
this up here so when we
shove I'm going to bring up this Equity
graph this blue line represents big
blinds range right and all of these this
long flat blue line that is their
indifference region these are hands that
are indifferent between calling and
folding that includes
ace5 as well as some King High and
everything in between right and of
course they've got some strong hands
like you know trips that what to call
this green line represents buttons
distribution so they've got nutted hands
and they've got Bluffs and a few mergy
Ace
highets and so what happens is if you
shift the amount of Bluffs or the amount
of value just very slightly all of a
sudden you're not laying the correct pot
odds for your bet size and this long
flat Blue Line will shift into either a
range call or a range fold
right so let me bring up another example
here what if they under
Bluff check and the again the only thing
I've changed is just Queen Jack
everything else is the same and so I've
changed it from mixing about half the
time to a pure check so now we're under
bluffing we're not bluffing enough and
when we bet only trips calls all of the
ace high folds because this long flat
Blue Line has now shifted down just ever
so slightly into the pure fold range
they're not getting the correct pot
odds so this is the
Baseline and this is what it looks like
when we're under bluffing by about 2% so
you can see solvers are just ruthless
right they are Clairvoyant they know
exactly what their Equity is and they
know exactly what pot odds they need to
call and how much money a call will make
or lose they don't actually calculate
pot odds by the way they just calculate
EV and it knows that calling is going to
be lower
EV than
folding and so the next point I also ran
for example the next level on top of
this is okay let's assume that you're
playing a real game and you're playing
the big blind in this spot and you think
your opponent is too value heavy so you
fold everything but trips all of your
ace high because you think they're under
bluffing well how exploitable is this
adjustment well I'm not going to go
through every solve because I have other
stuff I want to get to before the end of
this lecture but I can show you this
spreadsheet here where I just figured
out the EV so in this
case how much does at a position gain
when we over Bluff and they over fold
they gain about 4.9 out of a pot of
195 how much does that a position gain
when they uh when we under Bluff and
they over fold they gain about 2.6 so
very small gains because we're just
making very small changes however we can
also calculate the counter
exploitability so that is to say if we
know that for example they're going to
fold way over fold how much can this
strategy be countered for and that can
be countered for a lot of money about 39
out of 195 because it'll just start
bluffing everything if it thinks you're
going to over fold and similarly if it
thinks you're going to overall like in
uh this example here if it thinks that
this is what's going to happen well it
can gain considerably by just not
bluffing and owning you with value bets
and so these extreme adjustments the
solver makes are to try and gain just a
tiny amount of EV but the risk you take
in making such a drastic change to your
strategy opens up the potential to be
counter exploited for exponentially more
than you gain in the first place right
like for example you're trying to gain
this 4.9 but if your opponent then
counter exploits you you can lose 34 so
you need to be quite sure of your read
to try and exploit very subtle
imbalances like this um especially on
the river in a spot like this let's move
on to example three here we've got a
donking spots I love these spots so it's
button opens big blind calls and the
Flop is 764 rainbow now this is a board
that the big blind should donk often
let's just take a quick glance at the
GTO strategy so here we can see that
that the big line bets third pot with
2/3 of their range they are leading out
a ton here betting into the pre flop
aggressor why do we think it is that the
big blind wants to donk so often is it a
they have a nut Advantage B A Range
Advantage C to prevent button from
checking back too much or D to keep
button on their toes take a moment to
consider your answer
the correct answer is C to prevent
button from checking back too much now
true the reason they have the ability to
donk in the first place is because they
have a nut advantage and that ties into
it but the way that button can exploit a
pure check here is by checking back more
let me show you what I mean what would
happen if big blind never doks let's
load up this solution so here we have
The Simple Solutions these are designed
without flop dongs so big blind no
longer has the option to lead out when
big blind checks button exploits that by
checking back more often we can see them
checking
90.7% of their range but let's just take
a moment to compare the range
advantages so as I said the reason it
does have the ability to donk comes down
to the fact that they have more nutted
hands I bring that up here they're going
to have more sets Straits and two pair
and I'll just maximize that for a moment
we can see that they have more of these
in range proportionally compared to
button furthermore they have a lot of
draws and overall the low cards just hit
their range better we can see this
reflected in the equity distribution uh
normally blue line should be underneath
the green line indicating a range
Advantage for button given they have all
the overpays but that range Advantage is
neutralized on this kind of flop and
furthermore there is a a nut Advantage
near the top which allows them to lead
aggressively so to exploit this if big
blind range checks if big blind does not
have a donking range button can simply
check back a ton and the reason this
works is because you're blunting big
blind's nut Advantage they're going to
get less value with the top of their
range right now let's just compare that
to the one where donks are allowed in
this case they're going to lead out a
lots and even when they check they've
weakened their checking range and
therefore a button should bet more
frequently I'll just ungroup these and
so big line is generating more money in
the pot in both lines in both the
checking line and the betting line and
so the way to exploit for example a
range better in the spot like let's just
imagine that button just bets everything
when check to on 764 or they not even
everything we'll just say they bet more
than this amount that than 40% of their
range for this size maybe they use a
bigger size or bet more frequently if
that's the case big blind's best move is
actually to range check and let button
make a mistake and then hit them with
aggressive check raises and wide calls
so the exploit button can make is a
range check button over realizes their
equity and costs us value in the big
blind now people will always say oh you
know it's about getting money with the
nutted hands and such and that's true
but you have to approach these spots
from the standpoint of why does the
solver do the thing well if it doesn't
do the thing the opponent can exploit
them by doing this and so if big blind
does not donk in this board button can
exploit them by checking more if button
range bets this board big blind can
exploit them by check raising more and
so there are always these exploitative
dynamics that are at play that create
the GTO strategy let's take a look at
this next example here this next one is
going to look at pre- flop strategies
and this one's AUM more nuanced we're
going to compare two hijack opening
ranges one are the general Solutions and
in these Solutions every position is
able to call your open next we'll look
at the Simple Solutions and in these
ones only big blind can call small blind
button and cut off must use a three bet
or fold strategy so how will this change
hijacks strategy so here we have the
general Solutions and we can see that
after hijack opens cut off can call
Button can call small blind can call big
blind can call the overall range is
opening
21.6% let's compare that to The Simple
Solutions here it's opening
24.4% and when they open cut off button
small blind Must ALL use raise F
strategies they don't have the option to
call only big blank call so why is that
again let's just do a side by-side
comparison we can see that the opening
frequency increases by about 3% when
people do not have the option to call
and instead use raise fold strategies
and we can think of a number of
potential theories for why this might
happen for example we can say that if
our opponents are using a raise fold
strategy perhaps we need more board
coverage in hijack or perhaps uh we
can't be punished by calls as much maybe
we have better implied odds versus the
big blind in The Simple Solutions and
therefore we can call wider maybe it's
just got something to do with the fact
that big blind is more like to call
which of these do you think is the
correct answer take a moment and
consider your
answer the correct answer is B they
cannot be punished with calls as much
this is to do with the fact that the
opponents can only raise so many hands
before they themselves become
exploitable they can create a more
sophisticated defense by employing a
calling strategy
that will force hijack to open tighter
all of these mixed hands right in the
Simple Solutions won't be able to open
as wide if the opponents can exploit us
using two actions rather than one so
again it always comes down to why does
the solver do the thing because if it
didn't do the thing the opponent could
exploit them by doing X or conversely in
this case we've taken away our
opponent's ability to exploit us through
calls and therefore the optimal strategy
adjusts to open wider so this one is
button versus big blind turn overb these
are really fun lines you guys will like
this one so this is a spot where we open
on the button it's a 100 big blind cash
game at 500 NL rake structure flop is
Ace King 3 now what a lot of people do
on you know high card high card low card
kind of boards is they'll just range P
small but the solver actually prefers an
overb on these boards which I'm sure
most of the advanced players will know
and the reason for that is because you
can actually gain more with your nutted
hands with your stronger hands your
strong top pair and
such with an overb strategy and part of
the reason is because big blind just
does not have enough nutted hands to
counter you like if you just look at all
the two pair plus that accounts for 1.9%
of big pl's range they just don't have
enough strong hands even top pair hands
they just don't have enough of to
counter an overb strategy so instead of
range betting small the solver prefers
to overb on this board get more value at
the top of its range and as a result a
lot of the weaker hands have to now go
into the checkline the truth is that any
strategy will print on this board as
long as you're putting in money this
should be really good for the buttons
range so button over bets big blind
calls and we get a three of diamonds now
one interesting feature you can try here
is you can open up these turn reports
and see how the big blind should play
across different turn cards
I'm going to just view that as a graph
in chart mode and we can see that the
big blind actually donks when the flush
completes quite often they'll also donk
on a king sometimes the reason for that
is because the ranges are quite
imbalanced after this overb buttons
range sorry big lines range will be more
condensed towards
um you know maid hands and draws so
they'll have more flush draws combo
draws as well as more hands like second
pair like button doesn't overb second
pair on the Flop but big blind does call
second pair so I've chosen the three of
diamonds as a turn card it's kind of a
brick and on this
card button should continue with another
125% overb this is the standard
strategy and we they do this with strong
top pair plus right as well as trips
sets boats stuff like that
and they do continue to Bluff with a
variety of Bluffs I'm going to put that
in horizontal mode mostly Bluffs
containing a spade so here's a question
for you guys this will be the last poll
of the lecture how often should button
give up on the River on average across
all possible runouts after they've overb
125% and big blind calls take a moment
to consider your answer
so what are we at very very Split
Decision here um we have every answer
split down the middle here most people
saying give up more often some people
saying never give up some people saying
give up you know 25 or 35% of your range
and there's a really easy trick to
calculate this simply calculate uh I
should add this only works in really
polarized lines like the one looking at
here where we're going overb overb this
won't work so well in depolarized spots
but in spots like this you should give
up with whatever pot odds you're laying
on the turn so
125% they need to call 125 to win and
the pot will be 125+ 125 plus 100% pot
so the pot odds are 35% basically so
they should give up with about 35% of
their range on the river in order to
make big lines in different floats in
different now this is kind of a
confusing concept but uh let me start
with this little calculator here now I
call this my caveman GTO calculator if
you guys want to play around with this
just send me a DM afterwards I just gave
this one out so this is based on some
basic toy game math we assume that
Equity is static hero is balanced no
blocker effects and villain can only
caller fault and what it allows you to
do is just enter stuff in here so we'll
say that on the turn
our Bluffs have 20% our value has 80%
and how much is behind after we bet it's
about a pot size chove so you can enter
you know any amount in here and it's
going to adjust
stuff now under this exact toy
game what ends up happening is we should
be using a range containing about uh 40%
value 60% Bluffs on the turn and then
giving up with a p of our Bluffs on the
river such that their calls are
indifferent
right on the river using a pot siiz
chove of course the equity will change
it'll be slightly different because
either our Bluffs will hit or they won't
but the river you want to use an
appropriate value Bluff ratio so let's
see what Pio thinks let me bring up Pio
silver here okay so I've resolved this
in
Pio okay so we
cheuck we're over betting and they
call and I'll just choose any River I'm
going to choose what's called a hotness
report that's going to give me a report
for the entire River oh you know what I
better select
check strategy on the
river after we've
checked is to give up about 35% of the
time across all possible rivers in total
now of course the frequency changes
depending on the exact card and suits
and how well it hits our ranges but
overall it's giving up such that big
blinds floats are indifferent between
calling or folding on the turn right now
what old school poker logic would have
you believe is that you should set up
your betting ranges such that you're
always going to Barrel on the river
right you don't just over bet over bet
and then give up no why would you do
that but the truth is that's exactly
what you should be doing and if you're
not doing that one of two things will
happen
either either you need to use a tighter
range on the turn such that you have the
right value to Bluff ratio on the river
and if you do that you're under
bluffing and how do we exploit that as
the big
blind well you don't
call you raise your trips and you fold
everything else so this is what happens
when we're under bluffing with a ratio
that can basically always bet the river
when called
um the
alternative is that you use a balanced
range on the turn and then you overbluff
the river right you're not giving up
enough therefore you must be over
bluffing in which case the exploit is to
just call Down super white with Bluff
catchers and so consider what your
opponents are actually doing in game are
they actually going to give up
you know a third of their range after
over betting the turn because if not
your static Bluff catchers probably
shouldn't be calling or if they're over
bluffing your static Bluff catchers
should always be calling and so we can
see it creates these very imbalanced
strategies this is why the silver will
give up with a portion of its range
after taking this line so in conclusion
to solve the question why does the
silver do X answer the question because
if it didn't do X the opponent can
exploit them by doing y this question
and answer is fundamental to both GTO
and exploitative strategies answering
this question is absolutely required to
understand the why behind GTO strategies
I see a lot of players they'll come in
they'll try and memorize every frequency
they'll look at hands instead of
strategies they'll look at you know one
combo instead of the bigger picture
which is a waste of time you should be
looking at the overall strategy rather
than zoning in on some exact frequency
because the truth is that some exact
frequency doesn't matter in a a vacuum
it's about the overall strategy pair
right and conversely if you're playing
an exploitative style you need to be
considering how you can be counter
exploited so that you can look out for
that you need to be answering this
question and you need to be doing so
proactively instead of just exploiting
on uh on autopilot right also consider
as an exploitative player how much your
strategy can be counter exploited for we
saw in an earlier example that you know
if you just fold a ton versus their
River bet well you can gain a little bit
if they're too Bluff heavy but you can
also lose a lot uh if they counter
exploit you so every every exploit you
make can be counter exploited for more
than you can originally gain important
to keep that in mind uh so that
concludes my lecture do you guys have
any questions about anything here
today Matthew asks thanks for the talk
do advice on methodology to find
exploits versus the field so that'll
come down to some what we call Mass data
analysis that's a little bit beyond the
scope of this video
here there's so much Theory I am lost in
the forest uh I know it can seem like a
lot I kind of start my lectures so that
they're uh more friendly to a wide
variety of players to start with and
they get more and more advanced as I
progress so it can get a little bit
confusing near the end but uh if you
have any questions again feel free to DM
me or just reach out in the Discord chat
we're happy to discuss the theory there
all right guys that's all if you want a
cop of that caveman GTO spreadsheet just
send me a a message on Discord and I can
send it to you there I would like to
thank all of you for coming out we had a
really great turnout today lots of
participants you guys were great thank
you so much for coming happy grinding
