### TOPIC: mastering block betting in poker
if you're anything like me you've
probably been hearing the term block bet
as part of poker strategy for a very
long time but like a lot of other
Concepts it's very easy to use this term
without having a clear understanding of
what exactly it means and many players
end up employing block bet strategies
without being clear on why they're doing
it in this video we'll correct some of
these
issues before we dive into the video
please take the time to go ahead and
like the video and subscribe to to our
Channel it helps us keep bringing you
highquality strategy content on a
regular basis thanks hi Wizards I'm Matt
hunt and this video is going to be all
about the theory behind block bets this
is a complex topic so we're going to
tackle it from as many different angles
as possible in order for you to get a
full perspective however there are some
restrictions in how we're going to
Define our terms which I'll explain
shortly to start with let's establish
what we're referring to when we talk
about a block bet first and foremost
we're referring to small bet sizes
usually anywhere around 35% of the pot
or less but sometimes as small as 10% or
even 5% of the pot while it wouldn't
necessarily be incorrect to use the term
to describe a small bet on any street
it's primarily used to describe bets
made on the river since these bets tend
to serve a different more specific
purpose than small bets made on earlier
streets for that reason we're
exclusively going to be discussing small
bets made on the river in this video in
addition we're only going to be focusing
on bets made from out of position this
is for the very simple reason that small
bets from in position on the river don't
tend to occur at equilibrium the
downside of reopening the betting action
and potentially getting raised is almost
always greater than whatever additional
EV we might gain from betting small
relative to checking and seeing a
showdown this forms the basis of our
most fundamental principle regarding
block bets which is that we should not
use block bets from in position on the
river this video is also not going to
cover block bets which fall into the
category of donk bets in other words any
bet from Outer position in a spot where
we check the previous Street in order to
discuss these spots we would have to
dive into the theory behind donk betting
which is a very big topic and is best
covered in a separate video watch out
for that one in future with that said
let's discuss some of the most common
misconceptions about block bets since
it's important to address a few of those
before we fully dive into the theory
let's start with a simple true or false
question for you all feel free to pause
the video for a moment if you need some
time to think about the answer true or
false block bets are made primarily
because our specific hand does not want
want to check and face a bet from our
opponent think about this one for a
[Music]
second hopefully you have your answer by
now so let's discuss it the answer is
false as many of you might have imagined
however the theory behind block bets is
actually a lot more complex than this
and you may be surprised to learn that
there is actually a small grain of truth
behind this concept which we'll discuss
later on when we look at range
Construction in fact there are are
several different common misconceptions
about block betting which all contain a
small grain of Truth despite the fact
that they would generally be bad advice
to follow for example the idea that
block betting is only done with middle
strength hands the idea that it's done
with the specific intent of inducing our
opponent to raise or conversely the idea
that we're usually intending to fold to
AR raise when we do it each of these
ideas individually is incorrect but they
are all grounded in some kind of
approximation of what the theory behind
block betting actually looks like and
we'll tackle each of those grains of
Truth in a few minutes for now though
let's focus on some of the primary
Theory Concepts which will help us in
understanding how block bets function
the first of these ideas relates to the
ranges which are usually in play When we
arrive at a blockb scenario the idea of
depolarized equity distributions I have
another question for all of you more of
a challenge really the following slide
is going to contain four images
representing the equity distribution
graphs of four different River
situations your job here is to establish
which and how many of these four graphs
if any represents a spot where the outer
position player block bets more than 30%
of their range not an easy question I
know but try to think of it more in
terms of which graphs represent
situations where block betting might be
a good play for the outer position
player this exercise should help you to
get more comfortable thinking in terms
of equity distributions are you ready
good then here are the graphs
[Music]
so did you figure it out well it was a
little bit of a trick question actually
because the answer is all of them all
four of these spots are situations I
pulled from the GTO wizard archive where
block betting was happening at a rate
somewhere between 30% and roughly 90% of
the time they're actually all drawn from
vastly different scenarios too the top
two graphs are MTT spots at two
different stack sizes and the bottom two
are cash game spots they're also from
four different betting lines top left is
from a spot where the outer position
player bets both flop and turn in a
three bet pot top right is where the
pre- Flop Razer bets the Flop out of
position and then the turn checks
through bottom left is a spot where the
big blind check raises and gets called
and then the turn checks through and
bottom right is a four bet pot where
action checks all the way to the river
what you can see from all these Graphics
is that none of them represent
traditional polarized range versus Bluff
catching range distributions top left is
a very unusual one in that it represents
a spot where the outer position range is
very linear with almost all hands having
more than 50% equity this was actually
the spot with the most block beding too
the other spots are all ones where the
equity distributions run somewhat closer
together and both players possess ranges
containing a lot of different types of
hands the best way to describe these
scenarios is simply to refer to these
distributions as depolarized
distinguishing polarized from
depolarized scenarios is an important
skill but thankfully it's not especially
difficult the biggest determining factor
is almost always going to be how many
bets go in post flop the more one player
puts in multiple bets across multiple
streets the more their range begins to
polarize while the more the other player
just calls instead of folding or raising
the more their range begins to condense
towards Bluff catchers this creates the
traditional polar range versus Bluff
catcher Dynamic that I mentioned earlier
however when fewer bets go in both
players ranges retain a broader spectrum
of equity they still possess some middle
strength hands and some weaker hands
along with a small amount of slow played
strong hands while many of the middle
hands will also increase in equity on
very turn cards this Dynamic will tend
to create situations where small bet
sizings are very useful for the outer
position player on many runouts it
allows them to apply pressure to the
weaker hands in the in position range
for a cheap price and in many cases it
will allow for some very thin value bets
as well but there's also one other
really big benefit to block bet sizings
on the river in particular something
I'll refer to as range manipulation
you'll have to bear with me a little on
the name of this concept it does sound a
little more like one of those
wishy-washy exploitative terms from 2003
but I promise it is more Theory based
than it sounds so what is range
manipulation well it's not about
manipulating our opponent it's actually
about manipulating our own ranges When
we arrive at the river out of position
or really on any Street out of position
but we're focused on the river here we
have to recognize that anytime we have a
betting range that range affects our
checking range and vice versa in turn
the nature of our checking range affects
the in position players options their
optimal strategy will be vastly
different against a very strong checking
range compared to a very weak one
remember that we're always trying to
keep villain indifferent between options
and the EV of every option will change
dramatically for our opponent if we
change the nature of the range they're
playing against if our checking range is
too strong it becomes easier for them to
Simply check behind see a showdown and
realize their Equity with most of their
range while the top of our range will be
less likely to get value since it's less
likely to face a bet in the first place
and have the opportunity to check Rays
if our checking range is too weak very
vulnerable to being attacked by the inos
player both with thin value bets and a
higher rate of Bluffs as a direct result
of this wider value bet range if for
example our range is so weak that our
opponent can overb any second pair or
better for Value then they're going to
be able to fire out a lot of Bluffs as
well and this puts a lot of our Bluff
catchers in really bad spots but this at
least in part is where block Bing comes
in Block Bing serves as a way for us to
effectively alter the nature of our
checking range without paying a
significant price to do so in some cases
paying the minimum price of one big
blind we're creating an extra node in
the game tree which isn't substantially
different from the node next to it where
we check but it's different enough that
it allows us to make slightly more money
at the checking node to show you a
little more of what I mean here's an
example spot that I ran through a solver
myself with a slightly simplified River
game tree it's a 50 big blind tournament
spot where the hijack bets half pot on
1095 2tone against hero in the big blind
gets called and then the turn jack
checked through the river is the Queen
of Hearts completing both flushes and
Straits in this spot when I only gave
hero the option to check or bet full pot
hero was forced to check roughly 3/4 of
our range after we check in position
checks back just over 63% of the time I
only allowed in position to bet full pot
here just for Simplicity but their value
bet threshold for that sizing is the
queen High straight a small amount of ax
was betting for value on this River when
I added a block bet sizing of 10% of the
for us here it improved our EV by 0.05
big blinds which equates to five big
blinds per 100 a pretty decent sized
gain for a tiny bet what it also did was
drastically reduce our checking
frequency from 76% to 54% this in turn
allowed villain to bet 1.3% more often
when checked to that doesn't seem like a
huge change but consider the other
variable here villain's value bet
threshold is now top two pair they've
started betting Queen Jack for Value
sometimes it might not seem like a good
thing that we've allowed villain to
Value bet thinner but in fact what we've
done is increased the rate at which we
cause them to be indifferent previously
Queen Jack was a clear check back but
it's now at the point where it's
indifferent between betting and checking
so we're actually achieving our goal of
indifference more efficiently here when
I added another block bet sizing of 30%
of the pot the EV went up even further
by another 0.07 big blinds or seven big
blinds per 100 so all things considered
we gained 12 big blinds per 100 in EV by
adding two different block block bet
options here which is a very significant
gain we could probably simplify this to
one block bet sizing of 20% Po and
capture most of that EV gain but we
can't get that extra EV without some
kind of block bet sizing here let's now
return to that concept of indifference
because it's crucial to this next aspect
of block bet Theory this concept is
something that I'm referring to as
double indifference or even triple
indifference what is this mean well to
explain it we first have to make sure we
correctly understand the concept of
indifference in polarized spots in a
polarized spot as the outer position
Bluff catching player we're trying to
keep villains Bluffs indifferent between
bluffing and checking or as close to it
as possible we're also trying to ensure
that villains value bets don't gain
massively from one sizing compared to
another we need to have hands in our
range which can defend against any
possible sizing most of the time this
just requires calling and folding at the
right frequencies with the right hands
because we have no reason to do the
betting ourselves when our opponent is
polarized and we're usually facing an
all-in bet meaning there's no ra which
can happen however in Block bet spots
we're very often dealing with much
higher sprs because not very much
betting action has occurred we're also
dealing with wider ranges containing a
broad spectrum of combos what this means
is that in depolarized spots where block
betting often occurs the inos player
will usually have a lot of hands which
are very close versus a small bet size
they have just enough equity that they
can consider calling because they're
getting such a good price however the
player will also want to have enough
Bluffs in their raising range that
sometimes times these hands will be
tempted to turn into Bluffs as well a
tough decision for our opponent in fact
we'll see that some hands will
occasionally have all three options
available to them versus a block bet
sizing folding calling to Bluff catch
and raising as a bluff they're
indifferent in two directions at once
because they have three options which
are all very close in EV in addition
because we manipulated our checking
range by including a block bet sizing in
our strategy those same hands will also
be indifferent between checking to
Showdown and bluffing versus our
checking range this creates it's a third
form of indifference and we reach the
point where our opponent really has no
easy options against anything we do
here's an example of what I mean it's
the same spot as we previously looked at
and we're focusing on pocket sevens in
the villains range if we block bet for
12% pot a hand like seven of Hearts
seven of Spades is indifferent between
all three options folding calling and
raising in fact it's even indifferent
between the two possible raise sizing
options as well in addition seven of
Hearts seven of Spades is mostly
indifferent between checking and betting
if we check it is betting most of the
time but it's splitting between four
different sizings the presence of a
block bet strategy for us here has put
pocket sevens in a lot of difficult
spots even the combos without a heart
are indifferent between calling and
folding versus the block bet despite the
fact that they have a clear check back
if we check so we can see from all this
that there are a few different things
that block betting helps us to
accomplish in any given spot but what
about the grain of truth that I
mentioned before about each of those
common misconceptions well let's take a
deeper dive into this same spot we've
been using as our example to discuss
what I mean so we can see from all this
that there are a few different things
that block Bing helps us to accomplish
in any given spot but what about the
grain of truth that I mentioned before
about each of those common
misconceptions well let's take a deeper
dive into this same spot we've been
using as our example to discuss what I
mean first let's look at the core
misconception that we block bet because
we don't want to check and face a bet
while this idea is very flawed overall
since we certainly shouldn't build our
strategy around the idea of trying to
avoid a specific scenario there is a
grain of truth to it and it all comes
down to the idea of increasing the price
of our opponent's aggression take a look
at this graphic to see what I mean if we
check our opponent is facing an unopen
pot and as a result the amount of chips
they have to risk in order to make a bet
of a certain percentage of the pot is
relatively easy to figure out when we
block bet even for the 12% sizing the
level of risk our opponent takes on in
order to raise our bet increases in a
nonlinear fashion as you can see the
price our opponent has to pay to make
for example a pot siiz raise versus a
35% block bet is more than double the
price they pay to make a pot sized bet
versus a check while this wouldn't
really affect the scenario that much if
the spr was very small and all the
raises were all in at this spr of
roughly 3.5 it does have an impact it
Alters the price our opponent will be
getting against a potential R ra and to
at least some extent restricts their
ability to raise for thin value without
risking overfolded to a re raise another
way to look at this is that we're
getting a much better price to block bet
and then three bet Jam all in than we
are to check and then check Jam this
table here shows what I mean if we check
shove Allin versus a half pot bet in
this spot we're shoving for roughly 1.5
times the pot but if we block for 35%
and then jam versus a half pot raise
we're only shoving for roughly 3/4 of
the pot this significantly Alters the
price our opponent is getting as you can
see and it also gives us a better price
on a bluff since our Alpha the frequency
our Bluff has to get through in order to
break even is much lower in addition it
forces villain to defend a much greater
portion of their range in order to avoid
overfolded if they raise against a small
bet they're now forced to call our shove
with 56% of their raising range as
opposed to only needing to call off with
40% of their betting range if they bet
half pot once we check these aren't
numbers you need to be able to figure
out in game but when breaking down the
theory of complex spots it's important
to grasp why the solver does what it
does in this case the initial small bet
has many different benefits to it but
one of them is to alter the number of
chips our opponent has to risk in order
to be aggressive and subsequently make
it harder for them to be aggressive
without allowing us a profitable re
Bluff the next misconception which does
possess a grain of Truth is the idea
that we only block bet with middle
strength hands we're going to use the
same situation as an example here only
this time we're going to focus on the
equity distributions of the ranges
here's the graph showing the two ranges
which arrive at the spot clearly the Big
blind's Range the light blue line
possesses very few weak hands by
contrast the hijacks range contains a
lot of weak hands the top of both ranges
are relatively similar the flushes and
King High Straits but the big blind
doesn't possess any trash anymore
because it all would have folded the
Flop however what's not intuitive here
is that the block bet sizings from the
big blind are actually targeting the
weak portion of the hijacks range to
make them in different because these
hands aren't absolute trash but instead
have perhaps 10 to 20% equity and
they're in some close spots versus a
small bet this produces the double or
triple indifference I mentioned earlier
if we look at the big blind strategy in
this spot we can see this in more detail
the simple Equity buckets on the left
show us that the smaller bet sizes here
are not used by any weak hands at all
that's the 25 to 50% category on the
right in fact the block sizings here are
heavily composed of some fairly strong
hands in particular the 60 to 70% Equity
region is almost exclusively using the
block sizes so it is actually true that
the block sizings are largely made made
up of middle strength hands here only
the definition of middle strength is
mostly referring to hands which have
between 50 and 80% Equity as opposed to
Pure Bluff catchers or low Equity combos
in addition we should also note that
there is some protection in the block
sizings here with some portion of the
best hands also choosing to block while
there are also some Bluffs as well it's
just that we can't Bluff very much for
this size because villain is folding
very rarely but nevertheless while we're
not block betting exclusively with
middling hands the very top and the very
bottom of our range is more likely to
use the bigger sizings or check the
third misconception which has an element
of accuracy is the idea that we
sometimes might block bet to induce
arrays from our opponent now personally
I think induce can be a very dangerous
word in this game because it implies we
can influence our opponent's decisions
so I try to avoid using this word but it
is common to hear players talk about
block betting strong hands in the hope
of a rise the main reason why this
thinking is flawed theoretically is
because at equilibrium our opponents
will always block at the right
frequencies whether we bet or check so
we can't somehow persuade them to over
Bluff by block betting however the grain
of Truth contained within the concept
relates to the idea that certain
specific hands will prefer to block bet
instead of checking based on their
individual card removal properties let's
look at the same example again except in
this case I've highlighted two specific
portions of the Big blind's Range the
non-nut flushes containing the eight of
hearts and the nut
flushes clearly the former category is
exclusively getting the smaller sizings
in this spot while the latter category
is playing a pure check I'm going to
switch over to viewing the archive real
quick just to show you guys something
interesting using the blockers tab here
we can see the node where the hijack is
facing the 12% block sizing from the big
blind and we're focused on the
frequencies rather than the sizings so
I've simplified to fold call and raise
here if we sort by which cards in the
big blind's hand make the hijack more
likely to raise we can see that anytime
we have pairs clubs or Spades in our
hand it makes villain more likely to
raise which makes sense since villain's
raises contain a lot of flushes and when
we have those cards they have more
flushes however if we scroll down a
little we can actually see that the
eight of Hearts is the only heart which
actually increases villain raising
frequency only by. 13% but it does mean
an increase by way of blocking a lot of
their most frequent calls which are the
low end of the rivid straight we can see
that the 8X hand are almost exclusively
playing a call here they're never
raising with 8X except for specifically
the 86 of Hearts I believe that is yes
that's the 86 of Hearts you can also see
that the Jack of Hearts has a fairly
neutral impact on the raise frequency
here and all the other Hearts if we
scroll down actually reduce villain's
raising frequency by quite a bit in fact
when we blockb this River with the ace
or the King of Hearts we get raised a
full 2% less often so in summary the
reason why the fles containing the eight
of Hearts specifically want to block b
as you can see right here is because
they're the only flushes which actually
stand a slightly better chance of
getting raised based of based on card
removal our other flushes either the
stronger ones or the weaker ones all
have card removal properties which make
it less favorable to block bet them and
more favorable to either bet bigger or
check which unblocks all of our
opponents thin value raises and a lot of
their Bluff raises we can in a sense
induce a raise by block Bing the final
grain of Truth in the common logic
around block Bing is all about our
response to arrays the old approach here
might have us block betting with the
intent to fold our entire range to the
Rays assuming our opponent only raises
strong hands obviously this is a mistake
since we should virtually never fold our
entire range to arays but there is some
truth to the idea that we have more
leeway to fold to AR raise after block
Bing than we do to fold to a bet after
checking it all comes down to what
tombos explained in his recent article
on the site the idea of the ini bets
Advantage here's a table showing our
minimum defense frequency against
various bet and raise sizings the
villain might use here our theoretical
MDF is very easy to calculate once we
check but it becomes more tricky once we
bet since we have to incorporate our bet
into the pot size when calculating
villain's raise the main Trend here is
that as you can see there's a gap
between how much of our range we have to
defend once we check in order to prevent
villains Bluffs from profiting and how
much we have to defend once we block bet
for the same reason that Gap gets
smaller as our bets are increases but
even for the 12% bet size we now get the
luxury of defending our range a full 8%
less often versus half pot just for the
low price of 1.5 big blinds in essence
what we're doing here is using the block
bet sizings to effectively buy ourselves
the opportunity to fold slightly more
often to villains aggression we're also
purchasing a small amount of fold equity
in the process which is helpful as well
alongside all the other benefits we've
already discussed so now that we've
broken down some of the common ideas
about block bet strategies in separated
fact from fiction let's start thinking
about the types of spots in which we
might employ block bets as part of our
strategy to allow us to do this more
effectively I've broken these spots down
into five categories of situations Each
of which is relatively easily
identifiable in game I've labeled them
type A through e for Simplicity type a
spots are going to be scenarios where we
take a polarized line again from outter
position such as betting flop and turn
or check raising flop and betting turn
and then a river card arrives which
changes the board dramatic Al type B is
any spot where we are in a depolarized
line as the turn aggressor we check the
Flop out of position villain checked
behind and we used the small bet sizing
on the turn type c spots are similar
except we bet the Flop from Outer
position and then the turn was checked
through type D is where we check call
The Flop usually versus an inos C bet
and then the turn is checked through so
we retain all of our flop defending
range through to the river finally Type
e spots are the ones where there is no
betting on either the Flop or turn and
both players check all the way to the
river let's break down each of these
categories of spots and examine our
usage of blockb strategies in these
scenarios using the GTO wizard archive
so let's start by looking at a type a
spot what I've done is I've picked out
one from the archive it's a 100 big
blind tournament spot three bet pot
small blind against hijack small blind
is barreling off here and as you can see
I've put together a makeshift river
report since we don't yet have the
ability to do river reports in the
archive and you can see I've focused on
the smallest sizing here and
interestingly there are quite a lot of
rivers where this very small sizing of
10% even in a polarized line is actually
used if we look at where it's happening
the most it's primarily on cards that
complete the Straits not so much the
flushes because the flushes do affect
the board in a slightly different way
given that the in-position player is
going to have some flushes that the
outer position player maybe won't have
as often here but the straight
completing cards like the
the king the 10 in particular of the
suits that are not clubs are going to
have pretty heavy block bet Tendencies
here for the out of position player and
even some of the cards that are
ostensibly almost a brick are still
going to have a little bit of block
betting even on a a four an offsuit four
you know there's still a small amount of
block betting there so let's pick out
the card that has the most block betting
here which is the king of diamonds and
just examine what that strategy looks
like here so here we have the spot
pulled up and in fact what's very
interesting about this scenario is that
we focused on the smallest sizing of the
10% but there's actually a lot of 35%
here as well and that goes to the extent
that we're basically never checking in
this spot now it's not a highfrequency
spot there's not that many combos that
get here but it is worth noting that
it's very easy for a spot like this to
exist where out of position simply has
the incentive to block bet almost all of
their range here and if we look at why
that is take a look at the equity
distributions while at the bottom here
you can see the out of position player
has a lot of medium strength hands and
in position has a lot of hands that are
not necessarily pure garbage they don't
have zero Equity but they do have very
very little Equity this King completed a
lot of hands it it made a lot of the
small blind's Bluffs improve to one pair
so as you can see small blind doesn't
have a lot of best hands but they have a
huge advantage in good hands the in
position player actually has almost no
good hands here and then both players
have a little bit of weak hands and in
position just has a lot of trash so in
position is slightly polarized but the
frequency of good hands is just so high
for outer position that they're actually
using a block size instead of checking
so it's a little bit like a spot where
they would normally check and allow in
position to Bluff with their trash and
value at their best hands and then they
would just Bluff catch except a lot of
their hands are so strong they still
want to get a little bit of value and if
we look at what the 10% sizing is
targeting here you can see what the
portion of the in position players range
is that's made indiff by this size and
it's a lot of Ace Jack some ACE Queen
even Ace Jack Jack n suited sometimes
bluffing sometimes folding 87 is pretty
close 76 is pretty close with a bluff so
there's a lot of 7x that's close between
bluffing and folding there's a certain
amount of jackx that's close between
calling and folding so that's the region
that's indifferent against this uh very
small size here so that's a type a spot
that's a spot where we're in a polarized
line and then the river changes the
board to some degree which essentially
improves our Bluffs doesn't allow us to
really have very much trash anymore and
it kind of becomes a spot where in
position or our opponent has a lot of
trash and some nut hands still and so
we're just sort of pushing the equity of
that strong portion to get a little bit
of very thin value and then also give
ourselves the ability to Bluff catch
against their jams so that's how this
spot is playing out so next let's look
at a type B Spot in a depolarized line
where we're the turn aggressor again
I've created a makeshift river report
here and this time it's for a spot again
an MTT spot hijack big blind except this
time it's 764 Rainbow on the Flop high
frequency lead board for the big blind
but it does go check check on the Flop
and then the big blind on the eight of
club's turn so four to a St on the turn
with no flush draws the big blind bets
out for 33% so a pro bet here of a
fairly small sizing and you can see here
that on a lot of these Rivers there are
very high frequencies of very small bets
being used you can see that even on a
king a queen a jack a lot of cards like
that there's 60 70% almost of block
betting being done and by contrast there
are certain very specific Rivers where
there's no block betting being done and
it's specific specifically a five or an
ace the ace being such a good card for
the in position player that the block
bat doesn't achieve much and the five
putting five to a straight out there
putting a straight on the board and now
creating a scenario where both players
are going to chop the pot a lot of the
time so if we again do the same thing
and we pick out the most common spot
here the River card that has the highest
percentage of blocking is the Jack of
clubs so let's bring that one up and
take a look at it so here's the Sim and
you can see the out of position player
here is actually pretty much block
betting their entire range at this point
they are betting 3.5 so 35% of pot with
40% of their range and they're betting
10% with another 31% of their range
there are some over bets and some bigger
bets kind of spread out across the range
with some other portions of range here
but there's very very little checking
and it's again going to come down to the
equity distributions so let's bring that
up you can see it looks very similar to
the previous spot here we've got a lot
of middle to strong hands in this blue
line here there are a few trashy hands
here so it's not quite exactly the same
but really again it's putting a lot of
pressure on these middling to weak hands
these 20ish per Equity hands that the
inos player has the out of position does
actually still have a nut Advantage here
so it again it there's a slight
differentiation between this and the
previous spot uh in that regard but
again the in position player has a lot
of trash they have a lot of stuff that's
in that weak region so we're up against
a fairly weak range and we're just
trying to achieve indifference against
some of the very bottom stuff in that
range so this 10% size if we look at
what the response is against 10% the
hands that are indifferent you can see
King High Queen high is indifferent
between raising and folding some ace
high is indifferent between raising
calling and folding Ace 10 ace9 a lot of
that stuff again is indifferent some
hands are indifferent between raising as
a block
and folding now uh actually some hands
are also indifferent when it comes to
raising for Value which is kind of
interesting so like Aces indifferent
between raising for value and calling so
very interesting there but generally
we're targeting a lot of pretty weak
stuff a lot of ace high that does still
have reasonable
Equity with the 35% sizing the target is
going to be a little bit further
up and if we go to filters we can see it
a little more easily here and I'll just
make it
range length for everything so we can
see really it's ace high and even some
low pair there's a little bit of low
pair in there that's actually slightly
indifferent versus the 35% ace high very
indifferent for the most part just kind
of mixing calls and folds so generally
speaking that's the way that this spot
is panning out it's similar to the
previous one it's a spot where outter
position just has a lot of hands that
have decent equity in positions range is
just very very weak and the small bet is
just serving to apply pressure to the
bottom of the in position players range
let's now move on to looking at a type c
spot this is a depolarized line where we
are the Flop aggressor instead of the
turn aggressor in this case we have
another MTT spot same Stacks except
hijack button this time we are out of
position on a flop of 1085 rainbow we
see bet for just over half pot get
called the turn is a King of Spades
bringing a flush draw and an overcard
and then it goes check check so now we
arrive at the river and you can see here
a lot of rivers are using a very high
frequency of block betting here there
are plenty of rivers where almost half
our range has an incentive to block bet
and this is where a lot of that range
manipulation is coming into play like I
mentioned the ability to slightly alter
our checking range by having a blocking
bet in this case is very very powerful
and if we want to pick out the cards
where it happens the most well the most
frequent one here is going to be the
five of diamonds so at
59.3% that's the highest frequency so
let's pull that one up and see what it
looks like so in this case as you can
see again we're not getting here with a
massive number of combos but it is about
25 to 30 combos so it's not an
insignificant number and as you can tell
there's a certain amount of checking
going on but there are two different
block sizes being used with fre certain
frequencies here we've got a 10% size
and we've got a 34% size so you know
kind of in that same territory 1/3 and
then you know the the very smallest size
or almost the very smallest size
possible and once once again it's going
to come down to what the look of the
ranges is so here it's a little bit
different than before in that we're not
necessarily as easily able to Target a
big portion of very weak hands here but
but it is fairly similar in principle in
that as you can see we now have a high
frequency of trash hands in the buttons
range the button does have 43 or 44% in
that category of 25% Equity or less they
do have some good hands now which is
slightly slightly limiting how much
blocking bet we can block betting we can
do U and we also have some nut hands
which gives us some incentive to to use
the larger sizes at some rate but in
general here the distribution of hands
is once again in a position where we
have a pretty decent amount of good to
to strong hands and then our opponent
has quite a lot of trash so it's just a
situation where the block bets are
putting pressure on that bottom of the
range here so if we look at how that's
actually
applying let's go through the 10% node
do the same thing once again the target
here would seem to be the ace highs ace
high is kind of indifferent here against
the 10% and low pair sixes and sevens
are pretty much pure call so the 10% is
kind of targeting ace high basically and
also targeting some of the nomade hand
kind of forcing it to Bluff raise at
some rate and then the
34% going to probably Target slightly
higher up in the range again yeah you
can see the 34% is now targeting Lope
it's now targeting 8X and nines to some
re to some degree which is kind of
interesting we've also got a lot of the
low pairs that are now in different like
sevens is very close sixes is close
threes and Deuces mixing calls and and
raises there so definitely targeting a
slightly different region but once again
it's a small sizing that's used to apply
pressure to a certain portion of hands
and keep it indifferent and that's a
good example of a type c spot let's now
look at a type D Spot this is actually a
fairly common one this is where we are
defending the Flop we check call The
Flop and then the turn checks through
and we're out of position on the river
so this should be a very familiar
example for you obviously we've already
looked at this spot a bunch but this is
the breakdown of the frequencies at
which the block bets are used on each
River card here you can see this is not
quite as much of a spot where the block
bet is used at such a high rate it has a
little bit to do with the Flop bet being
55% and in position still having a
decently strong range in some aspects
considering the turn was a turn that
some fairly strong hands are still going
to want to check but as you can see
there are plenty of spots here where the
block bet is occurring and the spot that
we've already picked out the Queen of
Hearts was one of the more common block
bet spots we've looked at that one quite
a bit 40% block bet frequency that's
occurring but let's also take a look at
the second most here which is the 10 of
Club so let's break that one down and
see if we can observe some similar
Trends so this is the type D Spot with
the 10 of clubs on the river as you can
see the 12% and the 35% are both still
relatively prevalent except maybe not a
little
bit except maybe not as much as they
were with the Queen of Hearts River the
59% and the 82% are also being used a
little bit more here considering that we
have a good chunk of 10x in our range
that's just looking to Value bet
relatively big and get some value from
that so in the end it's not quite the
same sort of a spot just because there's
a lack of draws that have completed on
this River it's given us trips instead
but it's the same principle here if we
look at the range distribution again
it's a spot where we have a lot of
Fairly strong hands or at least we have
a lot of hands that are middle strength
to strong kind of region and in position
has a lot of trash they have a lot of
hands that are in that weak category now
that's it's important to distinguish
here that when we talk about trash in
these spots we're not talking about just
random like eight High absolutely
nothing here necessarily we're just
talking about hands that are below 25%
equity and if we look at this region
here you can see that even some of the
absolute bottom portions of villains
range even some of the hands that just
have like seven High Etc they're not
zero equity and it's because sometimes
we have like a three High flush draw
with do three of hearts and they
actually have a tiny bit of equity right
so in the end we really don't have that
many hands in villains range that are so
trashy that they just have no equity and
even hands like their Ace highs their
King highs a lot of that stuff that has
uh some Equity here is in that 10 15ish
kind of percent region so again if we
look at what's being targeted by the
different parts of the strategy here the
indifferent region against the 12% you
can see it's a lot of low pair
in fact a lot it's actually kind of
surprising here that something like 65
is fairly indifferent against 12% I
would assume that that's just because it
loses to a 9ine or a Jack so often the
ace high is also indifferent there as
well particularly the weaker Ace highs
that unblock some potential Bluffs and
the stronger a highs that block some of
the value so that's kind of the region
that's being targeted by 12% and then
the 35% is going to be doing a similar
thing to what it was in the other spots
it's is going to be targeting slightly
further up targeting a little bit of
third pair some 9x but really 9x isn't
folding low pair is going to be mostly
the region that's very much targeted by
that 35% sizing here we're just putting
a lot of villains weakest sort of one
pair hands in a lot of very awkward
spots here so that's basically what's
happening so again it's a similar sort
of a Vibe it's a similar sort of a
approach where we are taking a spot that
villain has a lot of fairly weak hands
and we're putting them in a really
annoying sort of a spot against a very
small bat where they might consider
calling with those weak hands they might
consider Bluff raising with them and
that again is that double or triple
indifference that I mentioned earlier so
that's a type D Spot and finally let's
look at a Type e spot this is a pure
passive line where both flop and turn
get checked through in this case once
again it's a 50 big blind MTT spot this
time it's hijack big blind and we got a
board of King 98 rainbow Jack of Spades
tur
and then we're just looking at the
distribution of rivers here you can see
that there's a little bit less block
Bing going on here overall just simply
because this is a spot now where it's
going to be the case that for the most
part both players are lacking a lot of
their strongest hands and that in turn
is going to kind of slightly neutralize
the influence of the inos player being a
bit weaker because now the outou of
position player is pretty weak as well
so the in position player may not have
quite as much trash in their range here
but nevertheless there are going to be a
good number of opportunities for outter
position to block bet here and the most
common card interestingly is the one
that completes all the draws which is
the Ace of Spades so let's look at that
one so this is the Ace of Spades run out
here on this king98 Jack and you can see
there's obviously a lot of straits
flushes two pairs Etc out there but
neither player is really going to have
that much of that to to begin with at
this point we've got a sizing of 16% as
the block sizing for out of position
because the spr is so significant at
this point the need for two different
block sizings or the ease of calculation
within the solver of two block sizings
is a little bit reduced so a sizing of
16% is fine as the sizing that we're
just going to evaluate here and you can
see it is being used a certain amount
150 combos or so which is a pretty high
frequency considering a lot of these
other spots are situations where we only
have 20 or 30 combos in our range in
this case you can see that a lot of the
king X is choosing to block a lot of the
ace X is considering blocking at some
point because it's a little bit harder
for it to go bigger and if we were to
highlight the absolute strongest
portions there are going to be some
flushes in there but not a ton there are
going to be some nut flushes that are
blocking to get raised some nut flushes
that are checking just depends on card
removal as we mentioned before so if we
break down the equity distributions once
again you can see this one's a little
bit different cuzz again as I mentioned
the fact that outer position has now
checked twice also neutralizes the
strength of their range to some degree
so both players now have a fair amount
of trash and it's not quite as favorable
of a situation for outter position to
block bet but of course that does mean
that there's some good hands some weak
hands some best hands the distribution
is definitely going to be pretty Broad
and neither of the two ranges is going
to be in a particularly favorable spot
here but card removal is going to have
an impact as we've already said and
we've also we're also going to see that
there are still plenty of hands in
villains range that are going to be in
different versus certain bet sizes so if
we look at again the 16% size here which
is the only real small bet size that's
being used or the only block sizing
that's being
used we can see that for the most part
again it's low pairs there's no ace high
now obviously because there's an ace on
the board but it's low pairs it's Queen
eight Sev sixes FIV fours threes Deuces
all those low pocket pairs those are now
pretty much indiff versus AET because if
we look at the equity that they have if
we sort by Equity here you can see I had
like even Deuces has
11.7% Equity here or even sevens has
12.3% equity and those hands are in some
awkward spots versus that 16% bet size
just because of how good of a price
they're getting so this once again is a
spot where even though the block bet
sizing is not as prevalent as it was in
some of the other sit situations where
out of position really had a lot of good
hands but not that many nut hands in
their range this is a spot where block
beding can come in just simply as a
versatile tool to alter our checking
range slightly and create some
indifference for certain hands in the in
position range that otherwise would have
a fairly easy check if we were to just
check so that about wraps up the type e
spots so now that we've identified the
main types of spots in which block
beding occurs let's summarize what we've
learned in this video in general block
Bing is a very common part of the outer
position River game tree especially in
depolarized lines with limited betting
action the idea behind this strategy as
a whole is that it achieves several
things at once it keeps certain parts of
our opponent's range in different in
various ways at the same time and Alters
the nature of our checking range some of
the old-fashioned logic surrounding
block Bing does have some Merit but
range construction is very important as
always we're never doing anything
exclusively with one type of hand
when we're looking for spots to employ
block bets we should find spots where
our range contains a limited amount of
trashy hands and or both players can
easily have a lot of second and third
pair hands and in particular this tends
to occur on somewhat connected boards
Where the River completes one or more
drawers and I would also look out for
situations where our opponent has a lot
of hands that have 10 20 25% Equity that
we can put in those indiff spots that's
going to be it for this video I hope you
got a lot out of it if you'd like more
on on this topic you can check out Tom
boss's free article titled the initial
better advantage that I mentioned
earlier and solo Costa's coaching
session on depolarized strategies which
is available with a GTO wizard
subscription if you have any specific
questions about this video please feel
free to reach out to me via the GTO
wizard Discord server where I'll be
happy to answer them thanks everybody
for watching and good luck
[Music]
