### TOPIC: the 1 mistake people make when studying poker
all right i'm really excited to present
to you today the big picture let's dive
right in
so the reason i've made this lecture is
because i think people
tend to focus on the wrong things when
looking at silvers and really the
question of today's lecture is how do
you get the most out of gto wizard or
any solver for that matter a lot of
people they're going to spend time
looking at minutia studying noise
focusing on the small things rather than
trying to absorb the bigger picture and
i think the best way to use a solver is
to be looking for broader heuristics
focusing on the overarching strategy
rather than zoning in on inconsequential
noise so today's lecture is going to be
teaching you various strategies and
tools that you can use in your own game
to try and find the bigger picture and
stop focusing on noise
and this process of finding the bigger
picture is what i call seeing the forest
through the trees now instead of
focusing on you know why does this suit
do this but that suit does that instead
you should be looking at the broader
strategy pair you can use certain
methods such as focusing on thresholds
looking at the entire range strategy
instead of hand strategies analyzing
villains response considering exploits
trying to find the overarching picture
so before i begin i'd like to explain to
you guys why you shouldn't be focusing
so much on trying to memorize a specific
strategy rather you should be focusing
on the larger strategy so i'm going to
show you this interesting experiments
i've run this is an under the gun versus
big blind spots cash game jack 10 5.
let's take a look at this solution
so
under the gun is opened
big blind calls flop is jack 105.2 tone
and here's the strategy now we can see
it typically is going to mix somewhere
between 75 33 and 50 checking back about
40 percent of the time this is one
strategy this strategy is solved to less
than 0.3 percent nash distance what do i
mean by that well i mean that if you
play against this strategy the best
possible counter strategy the ultimate
god strategy against this solution will
gain at most
0.3 percent of the pot
what does that come out to
well the pot is 5.5
0.3 percent of that is
0.165 pip lines
that is the entire strategy
can beat it for that much so let's go
take a look at the experiment now i took
this
specific spot and plugged these ranges
and the bedding tree and the rake and
everything else into different silvers
to see the results here's one i did on
gto plus and it comes up with a
different strategy this one's using a
smaller bet more often checking a little
less often i also tried it with piyo and
pio seems to never use the 75 percent
pot-sized bet
and at the end we get three completely
different strategies that all have the
same accuracy the same expected value
same rake but completely different
strategies for example we could see that
gta wizard which uses g-solver or just
solver i'm not sure how to pronounce
that is mixing 33 50 and 75 percent
pot-sized bets you can see that pio
solver is only using 33 and 50 never
using 75 and we can see that gto plus
well they're leaning more heavily
towards the smaller bets and not so much
using the half pot bed so three very
different strategies all resulting in
the same exploitability so i want you
guys to just type in the chat why do you
think this is why is it that three
completely different strategies can
result in the same expected value
solving algorithm yeah they're using
different algorithms to approximate
equilibrium this is true multiple local
maximums absolutely well said elgato
there is not just one gto solution there
are often multiple mixed strategies yes
it's possible to achieve the same dash
distance with different types of mixed
strategies and so
realistically different solver
algorithms can yield different results
madman asks so if you note locked two of
those different solvers to fight each
other each would still capture the same
ev yes but you'd have to note lock the
entire strategy not just the flop but
turning a river as well fighting each
other and so different silvers can yield
different solutions all three of these
solutions converge to the same
exploitability and there is not just one
solution there are multiple and so it
doesn't make sense to obsess over trying
to memorize one specific strategy or to
obsess over this exact frequency of that
exact frequency because as we saw
earlier maybe you have ace queen here
that's using this strategy but if you're
looking at a different silver algorithm
perhaps ace queen
starts using an over bet
or mixing all three and so
the actual frequency which with you mix
a specific hand is inconsequential what
actually matters is the way you
construct your entire range
you see
and so this is why it's important to
look at the broader picture look at the
overarching strategy rather than zoning
in on inconsequential frequencies what
ace queen here what ace queen does here
in a vacuum
does not matter without the context of
its broader strategy so what strategies
can we as humans look for to find the
larger picture how do we find the forest
through the trees how to study sims i'm
going to go over a number of concepts in
this lecture we're going to talk about
memorization versus intuition we're
going to talk about finding thresholds
hand class patterns aggregate trends
polarity and equity analysis blockers
looking at villains strategy and how to
consider counter exploitability so this
first one is going to be contentious
there's a lot of debate in the silver
community over the simplicity or
complexity of the sims you look at and
the truth is that there are trade-offs
between a complex sim and a simple sim
you see a complex sim one that has many
sizes throughout the tree will better
represent the true game tree it is going
to be more flexible whereas a simplified
sim is obviously easier to implement and
more human playable per se but it's not
going to truly represent the game space
so you're going to get noise so let's
first look at the pros of simplicity
versus complexity now a simplified sim
is easier to implement there are you're
going to make fewer mistakes because
there's less mixing it's just an easier
strategy and fewer mistakes is already
going to add a lot to your win rate
simplified strategies are obviously
better for multi-tabling and autopilot
it's better for spots where you're not
trying to adapt your strategy so much
you're just trying to play a default
strategy and the main argument for a
simplified memorization strategy is that
pretty much every strategy is very close
anyway as long as it's relatively
balanced the ev gain between an
extremely complex strategy and a very
simple strategy is quite small there are
marginal decreasing marginal returns to
adding complexity to your strategy and
as the saying goes a simple strategy
implemented well will invariably
outperform a complex strategy
implemented poorly i'm sure you've heard
many coaches talk about this i know solo
has covered this topic along with pretty
much every other coach now i'd like to
talk about the pros of a more complex
sip now a complex sim gives you
flexibility it creates adaptable
strategies for example if you just node
lock your sim or if you just only give
it a one-third bet size on the flop how
do you know how to respond against
different sizes studying complex sims is
better for building your intuition it
gives you the ability to improve how you
think for yourself to find the
underlying reasons which can ultimately
build a better theoretical understanding
and finally a more complex sim has less
artificial distortion what do i mean by
this a sim that does not correctly map
the actual game space or at least
approximate it is going to have
artificial distortion because the solver
will try and exploit the limitations of
your game tree if you don't give it the
right sizes perhaps it can bet a little
thinner if you can't donk well then
perhaps in position checks back more and
there's all sorts of examples like this
where oversimplified simulations lead to
artificial distortion that look easier
to implement but are solving for a toy
game version of poker that is less
applicable to the real game and so there
are always trade-offs so we can look at
the cons so a simplified strategy has
its own cons simple sims of course have
a lot of artificial distortion from the
solver exploiting them with the
limitations of the game tree they tend
to be very rigid
and you won't really learn how to adapt
different lines because you haven't
given it very many lines you can't
really learn too much about the
underlying principles because you can't
see for example what bet sizes are
preferred how to react what your price
elasticity is against different sizes
this ultimately leads to worse
exploitative capabilities because you're
just trying to memorize a strategy
rather than understand it and
furthermore memorization is just not
effective for some learning type some
people simply cannot memorize well they
need to learn through intuition now
complex sims of course are simply
impossible to memorize even a two sizing
strategy you will never implement
correctly that's not the point you
shouldn't try to memorize a complex
strategy rather your goal is to intuit
the overarching strategy behind it now
this approach of course will lead to
many more blunders at first and that's
going to cut into your win rate it takes
longer to see the benefits and you're
going to spend more time looking at
noise if you don't know what to look for
furthermore this intuitive study method
where you're looking at complex sims and
trying to find the underlying strategy
the big picture is simply not an
effective strategy for some learning
types some people simply must memorize
they're not good at abstraction and so
realistically you need to find a hybrid
approach between memorization and
intuition
now let's talk about the limits of
memorization how many strategies would
you need to memorize just to know your
big blind defense in single raised pots
well okay the the tightest formation of
a big blind defense in a single raised
pot is about 230 combinations sometimes
double that on each flop there are 49
times 48 200 2 352 runouts per flop 1755
strategically distinct flops and at
least five positions to memorize utg
through small blind versus big blind and
if you multiply this out we get a lower
bound for the number of things to
memorize which is about 4 billion and
this does not include memorizing your
opponent's strategy how to respond to
different betting lines this is assuming
there's like you know only one betting
line doesn't include three bet four bet
pots cold calls different opening sizes
right structures or anything outside in
position versus big blind single race
pod as you can see trying to use a pure
memorization approach
is completely impossible there are way
way too many things to try and memorize
so you cannot
become an expert poker player through
memory alone you need to use a hybrid
approach between building intuition and
memorization how do we do that well you
memorize spots that appear more often so
for example pre-flop strategies can
often be memorized especially in games
with stable stack sizes such as cash
games it's much easier to memorize
pre-flop
spinning goes also involve a ton of
memory even though there's variable
stacks it's going to involve a lot of
pure memory now
you can also memorize for example flop c
betting heuristics not the exact flop
strategy but you can memorize for
example value thresholds what is
appropriate to bet for value on one or
two streets and you can memorize common
betting lines you know if you're playing
100 big blinds deep 33
and then over bet turn and then that
river now on the other hand you do need
to develop that intuition so use
intuition for further away straights
like you're not going to be able to
memorize rivers there's way too many
rivers you need to be able to use your
brain solver for this intuition serves
your exploitative capabilities better
intuition is better for understanding
the underlying reason behind theory
intuiting patterns intuiting value and
continuation thresholds in lines you
haven't seen before and of course trying
to imagine your opponent's response and
so realistically anyone that says it
needs to be one or the other
oversimplified or over complex hasn't
considered the trade-offs you do need
both you need a combination of
memorization and intuition to truly grow
as a poker player so before i continue
do you guys have any questions about the
trade-offs of simplicity versus
complexity feel free to type in the chat
okay no questions there you guys are
great so far let's talk about thresholds
oh hold on we got a question why don't
we start at the river and work our way
back because a lot of our opponents
study flop asks johann johann very
interesting question why don't we start
at the river i would say the biggest
thing to prevent you from starting at
the river are that there are 2 352
rivers per flop now that said i've heard
a lot of very strong players say that
the thing that sets them apart from
weaker players is that they focused on
follow-through they focused on how to
continue on turning river rather than
just trying to memorize you know the
best flop sizing whatever that means so
there is a there is some truth to this
that
playing later streets better playing
them more effectively can actually be a
huge boost to your win rate
but starting at the river and working
backwards is difficult because there are
simply so many rivers to work backwards
from
that said
you can do things such as learning value
thresholds to learn what is appropriate
to river bet what value classes can go
for two or three streets on what runout
what hands are appropriate to defend
versus different lines and this is the
study of thresholds thresholds are lines
of indifference within your range so
mixed hands are indifferent if you see a
hand that's mixing between fold and call
that is a mixed continue meaning this
hand is zero ev it's the same value as
folding if you see a hand that's mixing
between a call and a raise and the raise
if called is still ahead of the calling
range that's a mixed value continuation
and so one of the shortest and easiest
ways to improve your poker is simply
studying thresholds this is something
you should be looking for anytime you
look at a sim you should be asking
yourself
which value hands are appropriate to bet
or raise here which hands are
appropriate to continue with versus this
size on this board you should always be
looking for these value and continuation
thresholds now furthermore why is this
important well continuation thresholds
that is to say which hands are
appropriate to continue with versus some
size these tell you what the bottom of
your range is so instead of trying to
memorize everything separately if you
have an idea where the bottom of your
range is you can sculpt your entire
strategy upwards from there and
similarly value thresholds tell you
what hands you are representing for
value
you're of course going to balance that
with some bluffs some semi bluffs some
draws but you should know what you're
representing because that's going to
guide your bet sizing strategies on
later streets does this run out help my
value and so on so these thresholds
sculpt your overall strategies and make
it easier to understand
how you should be playing
not just now but on later straights now
thresholds are blurry at first so this
picture here is from a flop we can see
that it's mixing calls with a lot of
different hand classes and that's
because some of these second and third
pair are draws
they are blurry at first especially
pre-flopping on the flop but
these thresholds tend to crystallize
towards the river as there's less draw
equity i'm going to show you guys how we
can go about studying these thresholds
and using these to improve our own play
mainly we're going to be looking at the
filters and breakdown tabs so let's take
a look at an example so here we have
a 500 nl cash game
button versus big blind queen 94 now we
can see that it's mixing all sizes here
right and when people look at this
they're going to feel a little
overwhelmed uh sorry i have this on
horizontal mode which shows every
combination separately this is my
preferred way to study sims i'm going to
change it to vertical for this board
because i think people are more familiar
with this view so first thing you should
be doing
is looking at the filters tab i use the
filters tab constantly when i study i
don't think there's a better tab to be
using now
let's say we bet some size here 75
percent we'll take a look at big blind
here when i look at big blind's response
i'm not looking at what individual hands
are doing my eyes are going straight
to the filters tab
this is the first thing i look at so
let's find the continuation threshold
for mate hands
it's going to be right about here third
pair how do i know that
because there's a little bit of blue
there
right that tells me that this is where
it's mixing okay
and so this is the cutoff point now
here's a question that i'm sure the
advanced players will know but just to
test you guys why is it that facing a 75
pot size bet we're always continuing
with a four but we start folding five
sixes sevens and eights does anyone want
to take a guess blocking bottom set
robust equity more outs better blocker
yes yes yes yes five outs versus two ah
this is
this is the main thing more outs
because
you want to be able to outdraw villains
value and of course blocking sets is
important
but what's
probably much stronger
is
the fact that you can outdraw their
value more easily you see buttons
betting range doesn't actually contain
all that much all that many sets right
in fact we can see this in the actually
we can just do this we can hover over
this icon
and we can see that sets only account
for 2.6
of their betting range in this line
so blocking sets will certainly is part
of it also blocking two pair and such
being able to outdraw the top of their
range with out to
two pair
and trips has value because you'll more
easily be able to get paid off now
conversely these hands here
they only have two outs
so always consider
how you can outdraw value anyway back to
thresholds here
third pair
is the line of indifference particularly
these
pocket pairs with poor equity
realization these under pairs always
folding you can also look at
these
draw thresholds for example you're never
folding an open ender and you're just
starting to fold some gut shots here
particularly gut shots without a
backdoor flush draw
sahaj asks why top two and bottom two
pairs raise on flop but not top and
middle okay that's a question
take a look at the two pairs here and
we can change that to equity
we see it's very close between the two
and this might just have something to do
with the equity threshold now
realistically you could probably design
a strategy where
you for example
check all of these
and raise all of these and achieve
pretty much the same exploitability
however if you start moving the
thresholds around such that
for example top and middle or top and
bottom
is always raising but top two is always
calling
well perhaps your thresholds will be off
and your strategy becomes more
exploitable perhaps you start over
playing some hands for example anyway
the important thing to realize here
isn't
per se the exact hands that you're
raising rather it's the overarching
strategy so something you can look at
for example is bluff value ratios how
many sets to two pair how many value
hands am i raising
and this is something i'm going to go
into a bit more detail later just to
finish up on thresholds whenever you're
going through this take a look at the
filters tab and always look at which
hands are mixing
you can also do this in the breakdown
tab
now here we can see blue and green
and we can see immediately the third
pair starts to fold
right around here
right we can see exactly where the mixed
continues are and we can also see the
value threshold so it's about two pair
is right about where it starts mixing
and the weakest 2 pair we have is queen
4 no backdoor flush draw
how would the thresholds compare on
different solvers you tested would they
be about the same they can be but you
always have to put it in context of the
overarching strategy if the solver
starts preferring a larger size that can
move the thresholds around and
realistically as long as you're using
appropriate value for the size you've
decided to use on some flop then it's
going to make sense for example you
can't just start
raising
a bunch of top pair no kicker against
the large size but you might be able to
do it against a smaller size so it
always comes down to pricing now i could
go into a lot more about how i analyze
this hand but there's other stuff i want
to cover here so let's go back to the
presentation and we'll get back to that
flop in just a moment so something else
we can try here is comparing hand
classes on different boards now focusing
on one hand class and changing the
boards to extracting betting patterns is
a fun way to try and build heuristics
once we find these heuristics we try to
break them and once we break them we try
to understand why our heuristic stops
working on a certain board so let's take
a look at some examples here so here we
have king queen two and again it's
mixing mostly preferring an overbet now
a strategy to see what you should be
doing rather than trying to memorize
everything in particular is to try and
understand how different hand classes
play so for example if we just look at
this value portion of our range the over
pairs plus we can see that
they're rarely checking
almost exclusively over betting
mixing in some other large sizes as well
and we can see that for example when we
block
top pair
queens for example it's going to start
to size down a bit
now conversely we can say just look at
the third pair these are going to be the
under pairs below the queen and above
the two
and we can notice the bedding pattern
here typically the more vulnerable
pocket pairs are betting more often
that's because
when you put these into a large bed line
they're not going to have much equity
against the calling range
and so the most efficient way to do it
would be to take the ones with the least
amount of value the ones that block the
least folds and to put those into your
overbet line now what happens if we
change the board for example let's make
this an ace
we see the same pattern emerge here okay
well what happens if we keep changing
this for example let's say it's going to
be i don't know jack ten two
we see the same pattern emerge the more
vulnerable ones betting more often
i'm just focusing on these under pairs
here
and this is ignoring the broader
strategy but it is just a method to try
and find
general heuristics i'm studying one hand
class at a time
and now we're going to try to break it
so here we'll look at jack jack four
filter
for these
under pairs here
and here we see that it is well i mean
obviously tens are betting less often
than fives
just a smidge but realistically this
board is betting so wide that you can
put more marginal value into this
betting range the other boards we looked
at
were over bets and for that reason these
acted more as semi bluffs
and so here
we're more pushing our equity it's
different strategy
so like i said you can do this with
different hand classes second pair third
pair try and find common patterns by
changing the board type and then try and
break your heuristic and figure out why
by putting it in the context of the
larger strategy
another way to utilize to find the
strategies here is to utilize filtering
i think a lot of people they don't they
either don't know or they don't use a
lot of the different analysis tools that
are built into gto wizard and one of my
favorite parts of gto wizard is the
advanced filtering so for example we can
use equity buckets to separate value
from bluffs we can group similar bet
sizes together and see how that range is
constructed we can exclude and include
suits as needed so let me show you
another example here
so here we have button versus big blind
on jack 10 6. again we're looking at a
cash game
we've been 75 on the flop they've called
actions on us on the turn now first
thing to look at where are the
thresholds what hands are appropriate to
bet for value well we see there are
eight different actions going on here
that's a little complicated but if we
look closer
realistically
this is an over bet or check spot right
realistically this is over bet check
and so when we look at it this way it
becomes a little simpler
if we look at the overbet strategy we
can see that top pair specifically top
pair with a kicker above the jack
is going to be the bottom of our value
bet range we can confirm this
by
selecting the over bet
and using these equity bucket filters
this is isolating our value range right
so on the turn we want to isolate our
value range we would do this maybe this
as well maybe the best hands in the good
hands
and here we've isolated the very top of
our range that is betting for value and
conversely we can select these bottom
two and say these are the hands that are
betting as bluffs
right
and now we can see for example that most
of our bluffs are going to involve these
over card gut shots
draws
i'll change that to horizontal
lots of diamonds
and let's go ahead and just exclude the
flush draws because those are very
obvious
and here we can say that over bets that
don't have diamonds either need
uh to have a direct draw like eight
seven or they need over cards to the
board in other words you need to be able
to outdraw your opponent's value range
and so instead of trying to memorize the
exact hands i'm memorizing these
patterns right i'm saying what do the
over bed patterns look like you really
want some over cards that draw their
value and that's how i analyze this is
by just looking at various filters
right so again
use equity buckets something else you
can do is use the ranges tab
as a filter you can go to advanced
buckets
and here
we can study
the distribution
we can also say for example just isolate
the very strongest hands this is 80 plus
whereas these equity buckets here are
coarser this is only 75
50 or 33. um
now i was going to present this in my
powerpoint later on but i might as well
show you here
you can press this button to toggle full
screen mode
and i really like looking at the equity
bucket distributions
to get a glimpse of the polarity of the
strategy
do you guys notice this curve right here
this
little curve in the equity bucket
analysis
we'll notice that button
has most of these 80 plus equity hands
that represents 18 percent of their
range it only represents 4.8 percent of
big blinds range
button also has more trash they have
more hands down here at the bottom right
that's like 65 of their range and they
have fewer middling hands in between
that's only 16. so buttons range is can
anyone tell me what this word is
this
shape
that's right they are polarized and when
they're polarized upon the range is
trash
no sir they are polarized polarized so
when when they're polarized
you're going to see more big bet
strategies that is to say they have an
advantage near the top
and they have more trash
whereas this blue line has more middling
hands
now when they're polarized you already
know that the strategy is going to be
close to geometric
that is to say
you're going to bet in such a way as to
try and get stacks in by the river why
do we do that well this is okay i'm
getting a little outside my lecture
today but
the reason that you bet geometrically
when you're polarized is because that is
the way to maximize the amount of money
that goes into the pot
and so
betting an equal fraction on each street
such that you get stacks in by the river
is the optimal strategy when you're
perfectly polarized furthermore this is
compounded by the fact that the
polarized player is more or less
clairvoyant when they over bet the turn
the button will pretty much know if
they're head or behind whereas the vast
majority of big blinds range is guessing
they are not clairvoyant
anyway
that's that's going more into theory
land i want to keep this more focused on
the practical implications of studying
gto so we've talked about this a bit
we've already seen that you can use the
ranges tab to observe polarity you can
also of course use it to compare
different hand classes now i see this
all the time in the discord people are
constantly asking questions why does
this hand do this why do we want to take
this strategy and pretty much
universally if you're asking anything to
do with blockers why does this hand
prefer this well that hand prefers that
you need to be looking at both ranges
particularly you need to be analyzing
villain's response and so utilize the
ranges tab go through not just equity
buckets but hand classes try and see
where the advantages lie try and see who
has proportionately more of what hand
class in fact let me go back here in the
ranges tab here
we can also take a look at hands
and we can say who has proportionally
more of what hand class okay
well of course we have more sets that's
because
they don't have jacks or tens in range
or over pairs because they three bet
those pre
they have more top pair though we can
see that top pair
accounts for 28 of their range and only
15 of our range
you can do the same thing with looking
at second pair or third pair
so
let's go back to the flop here
here's
an interesting method i'll show you guys
here we bet 75 on the flop
we'll take a look at their strategy here
strategy
and here i'm going to isolate their
calls
so this is just their calling range and
we'll notice that this updates the hand
classes
so against the range that calls our bet
we can see exactly how this range breaks
down
they still have way more top pair
they still have way more second pair
and so
what do you guys think will happen on a
jack or a 10.
like here we have a two of club's turn
but what happens if it turns a jack or a
10. yes that's right we start donking
big blind starts leading okay that's a
good prediction
well let's take a look at draws next
if we just select the flush draws
these are about equal okay
well we'll ignore flush draws for a
while
so let's take a look at
this the jack or the 10 after they call
now instead of selecting a specific turn
card i'm going to select
turn reports
there we go
we can see
on a jack or a 10
it starts leading and we already know
why it's leading and that's because of
course we've looked at the range
distribution we've looked at who has the
advantage in what hand class and from
there we can extract the strategy now
sometimes you'll see this without having
first looked at the range and you'll see
well that's weird why is it donkey on a
jack isn't the jack better for the
aggressors range well not in this exact
formation because
button's 75 pot size bet
has fewer top pair than big blind
defends with that's because big lion's
defending range is more condensed
towards these strong mate hands
whereas buttons
larger bet size
is going to contain more over pairs and
such and fewer of these top pair hands
so that will give the trip's advantage
to the defender on a jack or a 10. admin
says however check could still be better
if villain bets too often on these
run-outs yeah so this is going into
exploitative land so for example
if you think that villain is going to
dunk
huge on any 10 or jack well perhaps in
that case you want to start checking
back more tenor jack as an exploit to
capitalize on their ambition that's a
very specific read but it is
exploitatively sound
what is the in position response after
we check on a jack return good question
so let's take a look
we check
and i'm just going to group this by
cards
and we can see that the jack or the 10
is still bet the least often
and typically when we do bet it's going
to be a large bet in fact i'll just
ungroup those and i'm going to change it
to percentage pot so roughly a pot sized
bet
is the preferred sizing but still
checking back the vast majority of the
time something else you can do here is
for example we can change this to
default
and change this to the button expected
value
and we can see that the jack or the 10
are among the worst boards or the worst
runouts for our range even after they've
checked to us even after they've
weakened their range
and so
if we start ripping in a bunch of money
on these boards exploitatively big blind
should never donk they should range
check wait for us to over aggress on the
jack or ten turn and then hit us with a
lot of aggressive check raises
so
again
why did i go into the turn reports
rather than just clicking jack or 10
here guys
i realize not everyone has a premium
subscription some people have starter in
which case you have to do that actually
i think in this formation button versus
big blind you have turn reports even in
starter but
anyway the reason i went into reports
rather than a specific flop
or sorry a specific turn card is because
i want to find those broader heuristics
right i want to find
the overarching strategy
so let me
change this back to chart mode
here after we've bet 75 percent on the
flop we can find
the general
uh turn strategy now we can see we're
very rarely going to go 2x pots and
we're very rarely going to go with a
small size the vast majority of the time
we're going to be using something in
this range of 75
to 175 a larger bet size i would say
probably simplify this to something near
a pot-sized bet as your continuation bet
on the turn
so any questions about this so far guys
looks good so i see a lot of people that
have asked questions in the discord but
they're not looking at their opponent's
response i think analyzing how your
opponent responds to different
strategies in the gto solution is
fundamental to any kind of analysis ask
yourself if their response is human is
it realistic what kind of bluff catches
do they need to fight
how would you exploit mistakes in a
deviation of their strategy and as i
said analyzing your opponent's response
is also just absolutely required to
understand blockers
you cannot understand blockers without
looking at their response we do have the
blocker tool the blocker score of course
for premium members but even then you
still need to look at their response to
understand what's going on so let's say
we bet 175 here
now again we want to start looking for
thresholds in big blind's range most
people's eyes are drawn towards uh this
and they just see a mess
i'm looking straight here this is the
first thing i see is this little
indifference threshold here at the top
pair
and this one here
as the value arrays my eyes go straight
here to see
where these thresholds are and then i
start analyzing okay top pair okay king
jack plus always continuing we start
mixing with a lot of other hands queen
jack is very close to folding versus
this over bet
okay second pair again completely
indifferent
regardless of suit
with an over card to the jack
and pure folding otherwise okay
what about third pair well third pair
can also be a flush draw and so we see
these diamond combos you see this is why
i like this view here this horizontal
view because i can just see the diamond
combination right in here without having
to hover over it you can see these
diamond combos always continuing and the
rest of the third pair always folding
what about the draws
well
okay there's still quite a few draws
here draws account for
oh
a huge part of your range about a third
of your range overall
so you can't continue with every draw
especially against such a large size but
for flush draws anyway we can see that a
combo draw something that contains a six
and a diamond always continues so again
i'm looking at hand classes i'm looking
at thresholds
i'm noticing that for example
the
nut flush draw without any other type of
combo draw is just going to be
indifferent flush draws without some
sort of other equity are pure folds for
example king five king forking three
flush draws
that are in combination with other types
of draws for example queen eight here is
a gut shot
and a diamond draw
same with k9 these hands can start
raising
right these are our combo draws
so these
again four two here
you know you've got the pair of twos
you've also got before these combo draws
are continuing more
and so i'm looking for where the
thresholds are and i'm analyzing
villain's response to see if this is
realistic
now
what do you guys think do you think that
villain is ever folding
queen jack
do you think they're finding calls with
queen 10
no to both well that's difficult this
one is perhaps not a great example
because uh responses to over bets are
somewhat straightforward
because
you're narrowing the ranges so quickly
so perhaps we say that big blind calls
and we put an ace
on the river
here we'll put in a shove again what's
the shoving range
well it's about two pair plus
okay
so let's say they put in the shove here
now
who here thinks they find calls with
a7
ace eight
ace nine
six four
six five
queen jack zola says people are going to
snap fold these hands okay
fair enough six four easy call
[Laughter]
yeah and again this is going to depend
how you view your opponent
of course
any one of these hands six four has the
same amount of equity as a7 we can do
this in the summary tab
facing just over a pot size bets you
need just over 33 percent equity to call
so 6'4
and
a7
have about the same equity here these
are both in different bluff catchers
taking a look at the thresholds here
we can see that
i'll show you a little trick here
instead of selecting everything
separately you just hit this up arrow
and then we hit this down arrow
and here i've selected all these in
different hands these hands that are
kind of right on the line
low pair to top pair kind of hands
and here we can see where the thresholds
are
so again you need to be looking at the
response and you need to judge for
yourself
if
the opponents in the games you're
playing
will find these bluff catchers if their
response is realistic if they'll find
the correct value raises if they'll find
the appropriate amount of bluffs now
just to go back into theory land here
we've noticed that a lot of these
indifferent bluff catchers
are mixing so you know it's not going
according to hand strength rather it's
going according to blockers in this
polarized line
and realistically what actually matters
is that you're calling often enough
overall in order to not be exploited too
hard
by bluffs obviously if they're not
bluffing you should overfold and if
they're over bluffing then probably most
of these become a pure call
and so the reason it mixes is to try and
make their bluffs indifferent
i'm sure most of you guys understand
that now admin says not at the correct
frequencies though yeah now even if
they're not finding for example
a call with six five eighteen point
eight percent of the time no one is
getting that
spot on or even close
that doesn't matter specifically
looking at the individual hands here
is not what matters what matters is
their overall calling frequency relative
to our value are bluffs the reason that
the silver is going to mix with various
hands is to avoid creating exploitable
blocker weaknesses because keep in mind
button knows exactly which hands big
blind will defend with and if big blind
for example just calls the asex and
folds the 6x all of a sudden that
creates an exploitable block weakness
and big blind strategy that can be
exploited a human
probably isn't going to find that
right
and so realistically what matters is
finding the overall calling frequency
right
now you can try and approximate this
with mdf that's a little messy it's a
little cleaner here on the river but
you need to understand that finding this
exact frequency is not important
finding an overall calling strategy that
isn't going to be exploited by over
bluffs or you know value owning you
that's more important it's about the
overarching defense rather than
finding a 12 call with jack 7.
right
in fact the human could redesign this
strategy such that we fold this hand in
this hand and call that hand in that
hand
and that's probably going to be just
fine
maybe pure fold queen jack pure call
this hand um you are creating some
exploitable blocker weaknesses but it's
going to be very hard for your opponent
to exploit that so don't worry so much
about the inconsequential
mixing hands
mix frequencies with one hand rather
focus on the overall strategy okay let
me go to some questions here drz asks
obviously we deviate versus different
villains
if nitty overfolding a lot versus more
laggy
calling wider right yes of course you
obviously want to deviate if you think
that villain does not have the
appropriate amount of bluffs in this
bet that bet triple barrel stack off
line if you think they're too value
heavy then all of a sudden
you see this long flat line here
all of these hands which are right on
the line
become pure folds they'll shift down
slightly
and they'll become pure faults and
you'll only start calling with all the
hands
that are
actually decent value right
matthias asks why does jack 10 sometimes
check back if we on the river shouldn't
we always bet the good hands okay that's
an interesting question let's take a
look
jack 10 here so we can see the jack 10
is perfectly indifferent between a bet
and a check and i suspect this hand is
very close to the line
if i select all here
we can see that these hands have 80
percent equity against villains range if
we go all in
we can see that we're going to hard
block villains calling range
so we block
all of these hands we block these hands
in these hands
we block
these hands in these hands and so
realistically
um
you're getting called by a6 ace two
uh sixes tens you know maybe some 10 6.
um
if you block too much of their calling
range all of a sudden you just start
folding out worse and getting called by
better and even very strong hands
uh lose incentive to bets even though
they're way ahead
because you simply won't get paid off by
worse hands
nobody is clairvoyant
right so
we cannot be called by worse enough yeah
exactly
exactly
so
let me go over to the conclusion here uh
oh you know what we should cover this
real quick building wider heuristics
with reports
this is important so
let me pull up
this one here
now something else that people under
utilize
our reports
now i've just selected
like a random spin and go button versus
big blind spot i don't even really play
singles myself but i know how to analyze
reports to find data
i suspect most of you guys are cash game
players um regardless
reports can be used as a method for
basically
finding overarching trends and i think a
lot of people what they'll do is they'll
scroll through and they'll sort by big
bet and small bet and which boards are
checked most
and checked least
which boards are bet big
and bad small
and that's one way to go about it for
sure
but i think a lot of people under
utilize this grouping function so you
can group by for example high card
here we can see these are all the ace
high flops king high flops queen high
flops and so on
you can also
filter
for example we can apply just flush draw
or just paired and see how that changes
and here we can see how it changes the
overall betting frequency so a flush
draw period board in this spin and go
setup typically prefers a smaller bet
someone asks
how can we make the colors different so
that the reports are easier to visualize
okay that's an easy enough question you
can change that here in settings
and here you can change the exact colors
or you can go to themes and select from
some pre-made themes
that will have different colors
so again when you're looking at reports
utilize
this grouping function and these filters
and compare how the strategy changes as
you apply filters so here we can see the
default strategy
and of course we can apply filters so
connected monotone for example
we can see that the strategy starts
using
betting quite often and checking more on
these lower cards
and never using the big bets
you can also use this table mode
here we can see that 21 of all flops are
ace high
and now for example if we just apply
paired
you can see that 16.9 percent of flops
are paired and we can see how different
hands play out so ace high boards
through nine high boards end up betting
much more often
as you scroll through the game tree
this will also update
so here we've said button bets 33
actions on us
and we can see in the big blind that
we're basically just going to continue
more often
when the
high card is lower and of course that
makes sense because the big blind should
have more advantage on lower cards and
less of an advantage on ace high
and that's because in spin and goes
you raise most of your
or a lot of your ace high
preflop so you're going to have less of
an advantage
on ace high boards
so
try and use these reports to build
broader heuristics
something else you can do for example is
let me just pull up a random one here
let's pull up this one here king queen
two
instead of studying the exact strategy
on king queen two this is back to a
cache game by the way
you can use reports
and we can say
apply filters so we have king queen two
but perhaps we want to spread that out a
bit maybe it's
something like this
flush draw not paired
so how does the strategy look like when
the highest card is ace through queen
second card is king through jack low
card is six through two flush draw and
here we can see that
it's almost always going to be utilizing
an over bet as the most prevalent sizing
and checking back a decent portion of
the range
and so instead of studying just one
board
you can apply filters such that the
filters represent a variety of boards
that look close to what you were
that are somewhat similar to the flop
you were already studying so i had some
other examples to go through but i think
we've covered this in a fair amount of
detail already today's lecture was
mostly about just showing you guys
different methodologies and tools you
can use to better find the overall
strategy studying poker requires
combination of memory and intuition
there are far too many spots to memorize
so you do need to learn broader
heuristics now tools we can use to do
this are studying thresholds comparing
hand classes on different boards
utilizing filters to separate value from
bluffs comparing ranges looking at
villain's response using those reports
to really try and find broader trends
creating a hypothesis and then trying to
break that hypothesis anyway i hope you
guys enjoyed my lecture i hope you found
it useful i'll take any questions you
guys might have now dan says i learn
best from the big picture should i start
using complex solutions now i'm a bit
new side to the solvers and use in
general would it be better to wait until
i'm more advanced to switch well dan
that is uh something of a subjective
question i most people hate the complex
reports because they're so complicated
personally i kind of like them because i
really like finding those interesting
counter-intuitive lines the complex
reports are really great when it comes
to
finding bet sizing trends in aggregate
reports finding new strategies they're
not so good for pure implementation
because of course they take a lot of
mixing and so i think the complex
reports are best for looking at broader
trends whereas the simpler solutions are
better for studying specific strategies
so if you're leaning more towards the
intuition side if you're trying to get
some broader heuristics complex reports
are reasonable if you're looking more at
the
just a simpler implementable strategy or
you just want less data to deal with you
can use the simpler general solutions
both have their purposes a lot of my
hands are out of line so i have to look
at complex fair enough sir fair enough
well i'd like to thank you all for
coming to my lecture uh if you have any
follow-up questions feel free to send me
a message in the discord either
privately or publicly in the weekly
coaching section camilo asks if
threshold calling range from the flop
depends mostly on bet sizes as we know
is it okay to use an mdf approach to
approximate our calling range
considering we have to overfold flop for
a bit yeah um
absolutely i've done some other lectures
on how mdf correlates to the actual gto
strategy
it's not a direct correlation
the more value check backs they have the
less mdf seems to apply but typically
out of position will overfold a bit on
later streets mdf seems to be a much
closer approximation to the actual gto
strategy and overall just continuing
wide enough versus certain sizes
is a good way to create a balanced
strategy that's not going to be too
exploitable to bluffs or value bets
well i'm gonna end it here guys thank
you all for coming and have yourselves a
great day
happy grinding
