### TOPIC: the mechanics of donk betting
all right all right hello everyone
welcome to the mechanics of donk betting
my first webinar here at gto wizard
i'm gonna start off with a couple of
slides and afterwards we'll dive into a
couple of examples for the people that
don't know me
the weko played online poker for
i'm playing i think over 10 years now
probably even longer but i would say
over 10 years professionally for the
last two three years i've been
transitioning more into coaching making
content i'm sure some people
who have already seen me maybe on twitch
street youtube etc i got approached by
gto wizard if i was interested in doing
some webinars for them and in general i
think gto wiz is a great product i use
it myself a lot i think also the guys
behind the scenes they're doing a lot of
great stuff so uh yeah i was definitely
enthusiastic to do a couple of webinars
i also saw a lot of solos webinars he
laughed quite a high standard
uh so we're gonna do our best i'm sure
the other coaches will feel the same
thought there was a lot of goodness in
there so
i'm sure
some of the people here have seen some
of his webinars he already explained a
lot of knowledge so that's good so i can
just focus a bit more on something
specific like for example dunk betting
all right let's get it started so with
the first slide you should check the
words the razor if you don't you're a
donk okay this is
a very classic quote that people
especially back in the days would use
right you would always check towards the
razor and if you would bet out people
would laugh at you point say ah donkey
donkey he dunks out and that's where
kind of the term donk betting came from
now
my question to you guys is
why
do we indeed usually check towards the
razor because like you know this is a
term that is
you know people people kind of
labeled it like this people say the
range is stronger range disadvantage
range disadvantage razor generally has a
stronger range all right and what
happens
if someone has a stronger range betting
into an unkept range is generally not
great yes so indeed poker is a game of
equities if you want to make money you
invest in
moments or you start building pots in
moments where you have an equity
advantage
in case of deeper stack poker like cash
games that i specialize in also
sometimes you might have an equity
disadvantage but still in the future you
have a big another advantage so
therefore you might still want to invest
in the pot but that's usually a little
bit about how poker works right we're
trying to invest in equities
build some pots and then yeah make a lot
of money was another very important
point because we expect him to bet a lot
and then our goal for our good hands is
to gain evie by check raising instead of
betting yourself that's a very important
point right we have some strong hands
but we still check because we cannot
start dunking out a couple of hands and
then leave her check reigns very weak no
we check towards the razor the razor
does the betting and from there we can
start doing a lot of raising that would
also make us way more money than dunking
because if we can check he puts money
away the hand that he's going to fall to
a check race that he would have also
followed to a donkey for example we
would prefer to check he bets then we
raise we make more money so we bet based
on equities also for example solver
doesn't know who is initial razer right
you don't have an
initial razer button in the solver it
doesn't care it just wants to know what
are the ranges what is the board who is
out of position who's in position and
from there based on the equities we just
do betting now why does the initial
razor in position in a single race pod
often see but a lot for a small sizing
so i gave an example here button opens
big night calls flop comes something dry
rainbow disconnected big blind checked
in position c that's a lot for a small
sizing now imposition does a lot of c
betting because indeed we check the
words in because imposition has the
range advantage but why does he often
that small that's like second most
important point because often when we
don't bet it's small why do we do that
value of fault equity is high says
matthias so basically
in other words value volatility is
higher like to deny equity i like
betting there's a lot of need for
protection which basically means you
have a lot of hands
that if you bet and let's say you have
seven six and he has eight nine eight
nine has a lot of equity versus your
seven six therefore we do a lot of
betting right we deny a lot of equity
the more air that it has in this range
that has equity versus your hand the
more you usually want to bet to get that
air out in this case how can we make
eight nine fold well that's by just
betting one third and since the board is
very disconnected a lot of one-third
betting gets the job done right this is
also the reason why when the board
becomes lower we often want to increase
our bet sizing because versus a
one-third c bet people can still realize
a lot of equity and in general in poker
the main objective is you realize your
equity while trying to deny your
opponent from realizing his equity okay
this is a constant battle in strategies
so knowing this okay we bad base on
equities and we bet
a lot for small sizing when we want to
when our range or our hand benefits a
lot from protection what do we achieve
with dunking how does it generate ev aka
what are the reasons we dunk we already
named one right equity denial it was
very important we dunk because we have
an equity advantage aka we're gonna try
to invest into the pot so we talked
about deny equity spoiler that was one
and i i'm already looking at my next
sheet you guys can see it but it says to
extract value out of our equity or not
advantage this applies to all streets we
are investing in our equity by betting
to prevent him from checking back and
realizing equity for free so that's the
deny equity we allow villain to still
see that by weakening our own range on
boards that we crush so basically you're
saying because we already dunked a
proportion of our range then the range
that still checks towards the razer is
significantly weaker and therefore he
can do more betting is that what you're
trying to say
weaken our checking range to incentive
to bet more aggressive into our stronger
hands when we check same point from
andrew actually i didn't write that down
that point but it's a good point as well
but to be fair i would say that the
range that checks is basically you know
we will bat a lot of hands not at 100
frequency so
we sort of still have the same hands if
we check then if we bet right only
obviously the frequency is different but
it is true that for example if you allow
the big blind to donk imposition will do
more c betting because we have already
done better a proportion of a range so
this is also more of the reason why we
don't always bet certain hands right it
tries to take in consideration that both
lines generate the fee so in the
checking range indeed we can still find
quite a lot of check raise so the last
point that i was looking for
is to realize equity
okay we might sometimes dunk certain
hands
that if we check and villain bats we
have to fall to a bet okay this is a
very important strategic advantage of
donking so we can deny equity which is
mainly on flop and turn we realize
equity flop and turn to prevent freedom
from crotch controlling which applies to
all streets and to extract value out of
our equity or not advantage all supplies
on all streets we are investing in our
equity by betting so i'm sure everyone
knows about dunking and as i asked all
the way in the beginning we have some
dunk bad fanatics love to see it
everyone has probably considered it but
what are the main arguments for not
doing it i'm sure there's some guys that
are here that like ah you know i don't
really feel like dunking why wouldn't
you dunk why are you currently not
dunking
capping our range complicates our three
oh the three the three i like are three
i would have a comment on but the tree
is not necessarily that bad because if
you complicate the tree you complicate
it for both players versus aggro players
chris says why versus aggro players why
wouldn't you don't bet versus aggro
players population c bets too much
anyway okay this goes hand in hand with
the coffee set getting blown off our
equity hmm
that's an interesting point why would we
get blown off our equity if we don't
like he's going to raise less than if we
check then and he's going to see that
himself for example so we would get
blown over equity either way finland has
not advantaged yet so we're not going to
bat long bet on the board wherever has
another advantage on
because if he has an advantage he's
gonna do a lot of the betting and
therefore has no incentive for us to
don't bet anymore because if we check
he's just gonna bet and then we can
check race in all spots where are you
dunk
okay for example look at gto wizard
where you see dunks if you would remove
the dunk you would see that in position
we'll do a lot of uh very little betting
and therefore we want to take over the
bedding lead by betting ourselves if it
bets too much or strong hands want to
dunk less that's a very good and people
also indeed say population see that's
too much anyway i do have an example of
a board where i think that's true in
certain situations that's true so we
don't want a donk bet for example four
bad pods is a good example there is
definitely some boards and four web bots
where if you called out of position you
want to do quite a lot of dunking
however in four by pods is a very
classic spot that is often a bit
understudied given the frequency of the
spot people usually just start with
quarter pot at a high frequency and
there's then a lot of spots where you
want to just do almost range check
raising spoiler alert so then you go
from bunking to range check rating okay
we know not to see that too many boards
i like the uh i wanted to go a little
bit into the complication of the tree
like
complicating the tree you have to
realize this for both players so if you
think the dunking implementing a dunking
strategy is complicated the response
versus the dunking strategy is also
quite complicated because
imposition has to do
still quite some calling first gta
opponent dunking usually does not add
much ev to the strategy so a lot of
beginners don't want to complicate the
strategy without much av now that's this
is the one that i was also looking for
because this is a very common one
in the solver okay especially on the
flop if these
don't really change that much if you
give certain options if you don't give
certain options now the main reason why
that is because it's a solver a solver
will play optimally versus the dunk will
play optimally versus the check if you
for example don't allow it to bet very
big on the flop sometimes that will
lower your fee that doesn't really
matter because he will have the turn and
the river to make up for that mistake by
not having a big bet on the flop for
example we should always try to look at
in practice
does is this going to work that's
basically the question right it is
solver everything all the evs will
always be closed because it's a solver
and it's going to play perfectly i'm a
big fan of trying to get into lines
that for example you can study you can
study the dunk bed line and if the
population doesn't really don't bet a
lot the imposition player that has to
respond doesn't really have a lot of
experience in that line okay i think
nowadays especially poker people stay a
bit too stuck into the common gto lines
and then you play lines that everyone
plays so everyone is familiar with those
lines however if you start racing to
sizings that people are not used to for
example if you start memorizing the
small blind you know the strategy
doesn't really matter it will not
have a very big impact on the ifv to
give this argument of the solver because
the way you execute your strategy will
always determine the actual ev of your
strategy this is very important so
just as donk betting just as
doing weird stuff
okay if you put your opponent in spots
that he's not very familiar with and you
have studied that spot there is a very
big opportunity for ash and i think
dunking for example is one of those
examples okay i would say on the flop on
the river actually there's a lot of
spots where i think don't not dunking is
a very big mistake on the flop i can't
understand it but i think especially in
practice it's a missed opportunity turn
the mistake becomes bigger river the
mistake becomes very big okay so let's
look at some examples in the solvers i
wrote down a couple of points what to
look for in the solver this is in
general if you're going to look at
strategies you always want to look at
what are our highest frequency dunk and
check hands basically if you find a hand
in a dog bed strategy that never wants
to dunk
that says something about that hand that
we can learn what are the
characteristics of this hand
that it never wants to dunk
then we look at the hand that wants to
dunk most frequently and we look at the
characteristics of those hands
okay
this is how you want to think about
donking and then we can start to build
our range in our head like oh does this
hand have similar characteristics to the
hand that always dunks or does it have
more characteristics of the hand that
rarely don't
okay and then in game if you understand
these characteristics you can estimate
if your hand is a dunk or not we don't
have to memorize the the
the sim same for the boards which board
slash cards do we dunk the most least on
and why
okay we don't have to memorize boards
but we have to start understanding hey
on this board we never dunk why is that
well usually because imposition has
more of an equity advantage and is still
going to do a lot of betting if we check
and on boards that we don't very often
those will have characteristics where we
usually have a very big equity advantage
now
and in the future and then when boards
become closer together we start to dunk
less and then we will we could still for
example people then say yeah okay on a
board that only gets dunked five percent
or ten percent there's we can just
forget about it i completely disagree
that's actually a board where it's quite
interesting to still see okay which
hands
still have a clear preference for
dunking
okay and that's where we can learn from
this especially true on turn a river
where you will have like five percent or
ten percent dunking frequencies and you
see a couple of hands it's like yes that
exact hand makes a lot of sense
and we can learn something from that
exact hand it doesn't mean that we have
to find it in the game but the
characteristics of that hand are very
important to understand so you can
understand like why is that hand
specifically wants to still dunk so we
can look for a couple of hands that fall
in that category what are hands the
solver still finds in low frequency
don't spots oh that's what i just
explained
i repeat it myself
so
this applies not only to dunking this
applies to when you study sims in gta
wizard in general all right so let's go
to the first
example this was a board that i think
was
already mentioned a low
board where out of position will have
a slight
equity advantage but the biggest
difference is here
the nut advantage
and can we look maybe a breakdown in
general we will have more draws and
gutters
and open-enders that even on run-outs on
754 in the future there will be a lot of
run-outs where we will have an increased
not equity advantage compared to the
imposition so if you want to know
something about
betting frequencies based on equity it's
not always just the raw equity
then not equity is very important in
deep stack poker the deeper you become
the more we bet based on not equity the
shorter shallower we are the more we can
just base better on raw equity so if
there are some tournament players
listening this is an important
strategical adjustment you have to make
when playing deepsea compared to playing
in a shallow stack spot
okay
so looking at a hand
that
never wants to dunk
quote quote
okay most probably
if we would run the sim out to an even
higher accuracy and i would recommend
that
if you want to apply some of the things
that i just mentioned you will probably
see king queen basically
almost never betting anymore why does
king queen and ace queen
want to bet the least
that's my question for you guys we
already know we're gonna bet this board
because of the equity advantage if we
check towards the imposition imposition
will not do much betting therefore we
cannot get the check raise in therefore
we want to bet ourselves
why does king queen and a screen not
really wanna bat
they're blocking the folding range falls
out's worse hand that are dominated like
queen jack all right we we got the right
answers here how much do you guys think
in position should fall to our donk
roughly who can give me an estimation so
we dunk out 33 of the pot
the button opens we go on the big blind
how much should imposition fault around
20 25
raising frequencies may be also
interesting okay people have people have
watched this spot i think it's i think
we fold i would say roughly 20 as well
so i will go for the i will join mr
joshua for the 20
and race i haven't looked i would say
also fifth not 18
okay so the race was a bit too high
so 13 percent race 18 falls 80 folds
guys it's quite funky i have to say
if you have just two raw overs
yeah it it it is a little bit optimistic
don't you think like if i see a dunk or
if most people see a dunk on this board
they're like okay yeah the guy has quite
a lot of strong hands therefore he dunks
then just floating your ace jack no
backdoors whatsoever uh or even your
king crack king queen without backdoors
is quite unintuitive what we will also
see in general is that the population
tends to overfall versus the dunk bat
okay obviously if you would look at
data there's also dunks involved of
actual dunks
but i would say versus actual bunch you
probably even want to fold less than
versus a guy who dunks a bit more of a
balance range so in general it's very
hard to defend properly versus the dunk
right yeah and and quite massively as
well top of my head they're
folding over 30 like 500 ml plus so
imagine on on lower stakes
i imagine that people would just
fold their king queen with a heart
because yeah this is this is what this
is quite good
no but i'm talking about versus a small
dog
so
first a small donk population falls over
30 so usually quite incentivized to dunk
that
so king queen we talked about why would
for example what is a hand that bets at
a very high frequency
let me see i want to pick out okay what
is the difference between
ten five
and five deuce so five dudes wants to
bet around seventy percent of the time
and nine five maybe that's even a better
example
nine five and ten five let's pick spades
so seventy percent
and only
basically nothing
and only twenty four percent what is the
difference between ten five nine five
and five deuce
five
ten five blocks folds
folding range again exactly so these are
characteristics around why we want to
bat certain hands and why we want to
check certain hands and this is going to
help you construct your donk bedding
range because as you can see i can
imagine
you would be here like hmm
okay
this sounds this seems quite complicated
right because everything wants to do
something at a certain frequency
usually if a hand gets dunked maybe
let's say less than 25 of the time you
could just
mainly check it and if a hand gets bad
over 60 70 percent of the time you
should just mainly bet it now obviously
in a solver this is not a great strategy
because you know it's a solver the other
both players know exactly the strategies
of the other player and if you lack
certain hands on certain run-outs and if
you always bad certain hands and always
check certain hands that
the solver will punish that uh quite
hard in practice it doesn't work like
that so what i recommend doing
okay if you want to start implementing a
dunk
is to grab a board like this and
actually i believe let me
go out of
this mode for a second
if we go to range builder
range builder
and we say button opens bitcoin we go
flop is
754
confirm
what i would recommend doing
is starting to build your range
basically from here so we already
concluded that
for example five deuces great hand to
bet
and oh actually it's already on checks
why do we then bet for example
i wanted to say h5 because we never so
why would we for example then that ace
five
and not the 95 or the 10 5 that we saw
earlier
what is the difference so if we go to
the example again
we saw that 10 5
for example i had like h5
we bet very high frequency but it also
blocks some of the folding range or not
what's the difference
ace high still calls nine high faults
but he is
he is a smart guy smart guy he keeps on
nailing all the answers indeed so we
could say we could make a rule if we
have the pair with the top kicker with
the ace
if we bat most ace x i assume are
calling so ace ten is sometimes folding
but a lot of the asex are folding but
indeed it's mainly the 9x that's folding
and the 10x that's folding so if we have
a pair
with a nine kicker a 10 kick or a jack
kick or even a queen kicker we could
decide to check and if we have the ace
kicker we could decide the bet or if if
we have cards that are on the lower side
okay
that's kind of how you construct a donk
betting range
allows us to cool cooler in position as
well exactly
any more questions on this board before
i move on so i hope not everyone
understands why
because for example if we check
i will show you
it's checking 47 however that's after
we
have already done better 41 so if you
remove this imposition will maybe only
bad 20 30 percent
um
say maybe a little bit more
which means that if we have strong hands
it goes check check too often then we
allow our video to pod control we don't
get the check raise in which is all very
bad why do we always bat one third by
the way in this sim you could actually
also implement some bigger sizings i
would mainly say that's nice versus ep a
big one for epmp
but i personally don't really mess
around with that too much i mainly just
stick with one third the one third is
mainly right equity denial is top of the
list like when i gave the examples they
were in order you want to deny equity of
these hands
because we also implement a lot of
strong hands imposition cannot raise and
therefore we can realize a lot of equity
the two main drivers behind all
strategies equity realization equity
denial that's why we just start with a
one-third bet
and then he's still going to raise some
of the time and then we can kind of
unleash the true power of our hands as
you can see we can re-raise around 21
and i think
most candidates are quite intuitive
right if you have a strong draw in an
open ender you re-raise a lot if you
have a weaker draw on a gutter you
re-raise weight less probably also
because it's raised folding range
especially in practice has gone going to
contain an eight quite often i would say
yeah 25 does a good job with all in
general uh if you bet dunk by 20 25 of
this board or 30 35
i think your opponent is going to
respond to it quite inelastic so if you
think
i mean if we've concluded that
overfalling is going on smaller is
usually better so yeah if you want to be
a bit nick picky uh 25 is probably going
to be better than 30 percent does
imposition ever raise as a bluffer as a
small donk
yes for sure in practice though
the raising range is going to look a
little bit different
what you usually see in practice
is again
there's frequencies a little bit of
everything which in practice it's not
really going to work like that what you
usually see is that people will raise an
over pair a bit too frequently and their
raising range will contain a bit too
much equity so they will choose
8x more often over queen 10. okay
now what would then be a correct
adjustment
if we see a bit more overpass and a bit
more equity we overfold and we
re-raise
exactly the more equity venus bluffing
range contains the more we respond
by
playing back aggressively okay let's say
you have a set you would much rather
slow play versus queen jack than versus
queen eight
because in general if people's ranges
are constructed around more equity you
want to do more fast playing
um i wanted to go on to the next
example
which was
um
this one
it's a bit less intuitive an h3 do sport
i think these boards because i also
wanted to uh to add a point on boards
like this
we don't
if we look at the equities we actually
have an equity disadvantage this holds i
think this holds especially two maybe we
should have done it under the gun versus
big blind brown under the gun doesn't
really have deuces and threes and we do
same with force same with three four
suited same with four or five suited so
this is actually a board
that we can start actually building a
pot on as well
even though
protection is a little bit less
important this is dunk a lot for this
underground exactly i should have
probably used under the gun as an
example because there we have a bigger
equity advantage but i wanted to show
maybe also this one because here the
button has a range advantage however we
still have the nut advantage
and the future not advantage enhanced
like three five five twos okay
so this is also a board that we can
start implementing dunking on however if
you look at a data ace high boards aside
two ton boards do get cbd at a very high
at a way higher frequency than for
example the low connected boards i think
most initial races in position perceive
754 two-tone as indeed a dangerous board
whereas an aced reduce as a less
dangerous board therefore they're gonna
usually see that a bit more therefore i
personally prefer to not dunk here but
to actually go for check raises in all
the real world will be possible yes
and all the we will be possible in
position shoot lower is betting
frequency
usually what i see is that betting
frequency remains high so therefore so
now you understand mechanics why we
don't however
and this is why it's always important to
focus on the mechanics of a certain
strategy because if we understand why we
don't we also understand when not to
dunk okay this goes for all strategies
try to understand the mechanics then you
know
when or why to do it and you also know
the adjustment exploitative adjustment
okay in all theory you want to
understand the drivers behind the
strategies so you can then estimate if
this also applies in practice okay how
does a solver generate ev
and do we in practice generate ev in a
similar way that the solver does okay
i will give you guys
i will actually move on to a turn
example i think we talked enough about
the flop
maybe even though there's only one
percent straight it is because there's a
lot more draws that dunking becomes a
thing
so yeah it's draws
because draws especially also if they
connect in the lower end we have more of
those draws so it's not necessarily that
mainly for example now
are we have such a great advantage
however in the future we if for example
on the 754 let's go quickly back to that
because i want to quickly look at some
turns as well
if a three rolls off a six or an eight
it again gives us an advantage
all right and this is also why
imposition cannot raise relentlessly if
you have jacks here and you race
yeah we're gonna fold most of our shitty
hands and we're gonna continue with our
equity hands and then there's gonna be a
three a four a five a six a seven and
eight possibly also in heart
that you're a little bit [ __ ] on if
you have checks so usually like i said
equity-wise you want to invest in a pot
that you're often going to win not not
just because you're ahead now but that
you're often going to win so include
future play and consideration that's why
we don't want to raise a lot of
overpairs if we are the imposition
player i want to quickly look at some
turns
and try to apply a similar strategy
in terms of
how turns play out
because
we now kind of know
i would say already if you construct
your flop range
in the way that i explained
naturally
the way your your hands are going to
play out in both check
and bat
if you choose the right characteristics
of hands it's going to play quite
intuitively we will usually see quite a
high continued frequency on boards that
connect and the lowest betting frequency
on boards on turns that connect with him
mainly the ace and the king so let's
look at the strategy
on for example a deuce
how i personally approach this spot is i
will play a mix between one third
and 150
because again there are certain hands
that do benefit still from some denial
as we saw we only had to fold around 20
percent
and that want to sort of realize its
equity for a cheap price let's say we
have four six for example i think that's
a great example if i had that i could
bet for a small sizing again maybe four
six you can actually see it's already
starting to bet some very big sizing so
maybe that's an option
seven eight great hand to just want to
bet one third
in general if you want to slow play
don't slow play and with slow play i
mean or downsize or check
you usually don't want to slow play a
straight
why don't you usually want a slow player
straight
this probably actually applies in all
scenarios i don't have
so far i didn't really have to give all
the answers because we have some smart
people here in the chat basically
they're doing my work for me much
appreciated unblocks the calling range
the paris all right it's mainly mathias
maybe uh gto wizards can reach out to
matthias to come give a webinar that's
indeed true
usually
if you have a straight you're unblocking
all the board therefore that's the hand
that wants to play
uh most aggressive whereas for example i
had like pocket sevens we still see a
bit more lower frequency betting because
it blocks more of the board
five four
i think or even four dues made for this
is a better example
if i would implement a check it's
probably gonna be something like five
four or four deuce or five deuce because
especially button big man first button
they're blocking a lot of the hands
that villain can hero call with most
important thing is hero call because
first the jacks it doesn't really matter
if we check it's most likely betting if
we bet he's most likely calling or
raising right so we have to then see
okay if we check what hands do we lose
value from well it's usually a five or a
four because they're going to check
behind whereas if we would bet again
they can call so then if you have five
four
that's the hand that if we check has the
leads the least downside because he will
have less 5x and 4x so if you want to
slow play a hand on the turn quote quote
slow play uh some a hand like that does
make sense like five four five four
should maybe also still wants to dodge
some reverse like a seven a deuce is not
great a six and eight so i think five
four is a fine check
um
your straights then get accompanied by
almost traits so
in general as well
uh an open ender usually goes in the
same line as your straight someone said
pretty insane how every hand that your
reigns can bet and for any size pretty
hard to even make a mistake by the looks
of it exactly and again let's say we
follow it up with again so we started
with the one-third and we followed up
with the one-third again still some
people always hate highs full twenty
percent
i'm i'm gonna tell you guys that's
that's hard to do if people throw the
one third one third
on the board that was already favoring
them
most players are not going to be like
hey yes 754 dudes good board for you but
hey i have ace jack
so
let's see what happens no that's usually
not really the way people play poker
okay
so and again we see the same
characteristics right if we did dunking
queen or ace queen we check
and for example hand like 5'3
needs a lot of protection has a lot of
equity therefore it should still bet and
then these hands in the middle yeah
they're in the middle they can go either
way so they have some characteristics of
the ace queen and they have some
characteristics of the five three okay
but at some point it's very important
that you do want to start building a big
pot now we can still do that by 1 30
because at some point these over pairs
will all race okay if you keep on one
turning on three streets an over pair at
some point will race however
now is also a good time to start
building a pot so i think it's very
important to have a big bat and a small
bet here on the turn
okay any more questions on turnplay i
think
in general another reason why we do a
lot of blocking and probably even on
three streets
uh i think it was solos one of sato's
first webinars where he was talking
about the five biggest mistakes
uh
and i think
there was
one that i completely agree on a lack of
depolarization when you're out of
position that's a very important one
that's why we want to do a lot of
blocking and even on the river let's say
the river is a 10
we're still gonna do quite a lot of
blocking
as you can see 34 we can basically bet
our range
okay with a mix
uh but actually mainly one third because
all the hands
that will
call an overbet for example
our hands that will probably now also
race and therefore then we can come over
the top and usually in this kind of
situations your small bet becomes your
big bet by bet three betting and this
way we can also still implement a lot of
thin value that's like king five queen
five check five for example
uh actually i also want to maybe show a
term where we're gonna bet a little bit
more polarized
protection becomes less a thing of for
example a king
yes you could still
like obviously you could always make an
argument for still betting for
protection with five deuce i think there
was a hand right or five three that was
a full frequency bet in the other
example yes you can still bet it however
you will often get called by a king and
that's not great
right so i would much rather for example
maybe move five three to a check raise
or something is that something that goes
on
yeah that sometimes happens that makes a
lot of sense
especially i would say the
okay the hard one because it has a lot
of equity no actually both so if we
would make this a king
maybe that's a better example than
probably five three
of clubs
yeah a little bit more than spades
because we're blocking some king five
button versus big blind so on the king
last need for protection because he has
binked a lot of the kings
and on a deuce
we still have a lot of need for
protection therefore we keep on betting
but we also have another attendance for
we have a big bet and a small bet all
right
so let's look at turn
i think i picked out a five
so i have three turns actually three
turn examples
but i will start with the most common
one
and then with at least uncommon one also
because we're running out of time
surprise surprise i kind of knew this
would happen board pairing
is
is another one of these very common
examples where we do quite a lot of
dunking we can use similar
characteristics for example you see here
if we have pocket knights we do very
little dunking whereas if we have pocket
threes we do quite a lot of dunking and
that again has everything to do with
equity the folding range has versus your
hand aka how much protection does my
hand need if we have threes and he folds
910 that's a great result if we have
nines and he folds 910
not necessarily that great of a result
right so again in practice i would
definitely recommend to
[Music]
bet a bit more pure based on certain
characteristics of your hands
instead of
every time following frequencies but i
think this holds true for all spots in
practice no one will know
unless you guys now if you play against
me that someone always has pocket threes
here and never has
uh what is the hand king jack for
example okay aboard power xcd i remember
when dunking first became popular long
long time ago six years ago maybe on
turns it was pair per the board turns
you have to dunk again it's people
didn't really understand the the drivers
behind it because for example
let's say turn is a six i can
imagine some dunks going on here as well
and then again it's because we have an
equity improving turn for our range and
again not only now but if the reverse of
three four five six seven eight nine all
cards that we will connect better with
than in position another very important
point here
for dunking turns
after so yeah xavi let's let's go
straight to the next point because i
think
turn pairing is already quite common
right however actually if you want to
re-exploit the population people overdo
it in my opinion on turn sparing
uh
on for example the five we didn't see
such an insane frequency right oh [ __ ] i
messed it up five
i mean it's only 22 i think people
easily reach 60 70 percent here so this
is actually something that you can
punish savvy says after c but bigger
increased the dunking frequency
so
oh actually for that i will go to my
next example yeah exactly jsa so that's
actually uh um
a no doc that you should run to see what
the optimal response will be
this excellent example
uh button opens big bad calls 953 in
position over bets we call and turn is a
six but actually not only on the six let
me show you guys reports
even on a three even though you know
it's not like the three
the three is not necessarily that great
right if you look at for example the
range
the strategy and we're at our position
we should actually already fold a couple
of three x and it's not like we have
that many three x all right so mainly
the nine very important we hit the top
pair but also on let's say
actually i i put it the six as an
example so let's just say with a six and
this is not necessarily of course it's
also because it's improving but in a lot
of scenarios we will also dunk by the
turn
even if the turn only improves us a
little bit
um for the main reason that in position
if imposition uses a very big bad sizing
he will still have a lot of air in his
big betting range as we can see here on
the flop he will bat queen jack off we
will fold queen jack off okay we will
basically only
continue with pairs
some of these king jack suited that's
basically the only air that we have
then on the turn because we have already
folded all our air imposition will have
a lot of air and sometimes you don't
even need an improving card but just the
fact that we already folded all his air
he still has a lot of air that we want
to implement a small bunk bedding
strategy okay
um similar characteristics here
a hand like four deuce which is a
straight
we should just dunk bet whereas maybe if
we have two pair let's see
i would say maybe like a six three or
something six three
more incline to slow play six five even
more inclined to slow play then for
example the straight so that's
definitely again a main takeaway again
this is a general heuristic you can use
in various scenarios
um
the
the king queen i would say again low i
would say the queen 5 again is a good
example queen 5 wants to check
whereas 5 4 wants to bet so again in
range construction this is a very clear
check check 5 and queen 5 for the same
reason it was a check on the flop on the
754 board
now flush turns with a big yes there's
definitely so let's say for example we
make this a flush because
what's being said is definitely true so
let's say it's a jack 7 deuce
and the turn is say three
we still see indeed some dunking again
because
so this is a bit more common on let's
say the flop is ace broadway x there if
the turn is a flush it's a very common
uh
dunk spot proud position because we
suddenly have like 60 equity or
something but yeah so the main concept i
wanted to to show you guys
is after we check called in spots where
villain has better big we have already
followed all his air he still has a lot
of air and then if the turn is low
we can implement quite a lot of dunking
and i have another example i think it
was three bed pots
and that was probably
this one
this is a three-bed pod
hijacked versus cutoff
check in position that's half pot we
call
and turn is a six
and we basically don't bet range
okay
and again
it's not like the six is is necessarily
that great for our range right however
again he still is always air we have
folded most of our air
and the six does improve our range with
six five also pocket sevens is now has a
lot of equity therefore we can suddenly
invest in the pot with a small donk bet
and basically there is not much he can
do about it
uh he will have to suddenly find some
races with king queen ace jack i wish
people a lot of luck by fighting these
hands and also
i think especially
um when you're out of position retrieve
a pot on these kind of boards if you
just go and check call mode
what you usually will see on the river a
lot of these over pairs at some point
will start checking behind so you need
to find a way to fast play that can
either be by check raising however
therefore in position versus the bet
or
by dunking and then usually dunking is
the preferred line again also because a
lot of your hands benefit from
protection
right let's say you have pocket tents
pocket tents to be honest if you're in
this spot hijack versus cutoff you check
off flop you check turn and imposition
barrels pocket tents you're not happy
it's probably even a fault actually let
me see
three quarters
yeah pocket tens is just folding
so however if we don't bet ourselves we
can get thin value
and we can deny a lot of equity okay
versus the betting range we do very bad
however if we dunk
versus the folding range while folding
range often had two overs so that's
great for pocket tents and we now get
called by for example pocket sevens
which is a hand that would have
otherwise checked behind
unless there's some weird merging going
on okay pockets is doing that but
parkinson's you do usually checks behind
so here
in three bit pause especially it's a
good example of trying to prevent your
opponent from pot controlling which was
another reason that we decide to dunk
and to continue on that note i want to
go to the river
before we run out of time
because i wanted to ask one more
important question
uh i kept going on with the 953 here
over bat turn is a queen
obviously we don't dunk because we
expect in position to do a [ __ ] on the
bedding it's a very good board for him
the turn improved him quite a lot
uh he's gonna better mix between three
quarters and over bet let's say he bets
three quarters
our a big proportion of our calling
range is gonna be a nine and he's often
going to check behind
with a nine
a's nine sometimes betting but that's
about it so when the river is in this
case a nine as you can see
we do want to do quite a lot of betting
okay
for example i had like six seven you
might be on a turn like yeah okay i have
a shitty open-ender but then big bang
calls
shitty open-ender but we do see it
sometimes calls well that's also because
it sometimes has the option to dunk bed
the river so in this case i'm six seven
is just pure bluffing okay
another card that we could dunk on is a
five it's probably going to be a bit
less common as we probably thought more
5x than 9x on the turn
not even
maybe it has something to do with the
suits
queen five
queen five exactly wants to dunk that's
interesting because that's not really
the first hand that i would have
let me see if we have a queen he doesn't
have a queen
okay now actually it does make sense
four deuce yeah four deuce doesn't
really win much right
so that's the first hand remember this
is a spot where basically nothing dunks
but four twos it's exactly four do's
four that's about to throw out a little
bet and that makes a lot of sense
because he has six seven he has jack ten
so if you ever get into this spot with
four deuce
if you bet
how big does he bet
ten percent of the pot
excellent excellent okay this is just
you have air the five
or at least perceived for example if
someone would now lead to me on the
river i would be like that makes sense
you have a fight go go big mind go to
reports
no it doesn't work reports
i was pretty sure actually on a fight we
would dunk in the example that i used
ah so it is the suit that was it
then you get the ace high heroes but
that's fine if you have four deuce
you're not trying to bluff ace high for
10 that's not the goal four deuce is
trying to bluff six seven
that's why he's betting ten percent if
it wanted to better ace high it would
have been a little bit bigger if you get
what i mean
okay
because six seven cannot go versus ten
percent
right
check ten thank you
check eight why in that suit and not the
others probably has something to do with
the fact that we mainly have suited five
acts
and this one in somehow connects better
and again like for example if if i would
be the imposition someone dunks on the
five that's the heart and not the spade
it's on the space apparently you
shouldn't dunk because of the suits
probably has something to do with how
much pair we make with that suit
i would still give it credit so actually
i i would like
to dunk but more on the five spades
because it's a boar it's a card that i'm
not allowed to dunk on
in position has to know that and
therefore adjust accordingly which is
probably then to to not do much to any
folding whereas on this card i'm
actually allowed to dunk because this is
also an important thing right if you
dunk
let's say you make an exploitative dunk
you don't bet or too much or you don't
get on a cart that is actually not
supposed to be dunked
then imposition needs to know that then
in position also need to know the
correct counter strategy which is
usually to do very little folding which
is very hard as we concluded right now
on the turn to go back to one of two to
the same
i think it was the same actually uh i
personally in one of my youtube videos
actually i gave this exact example as
well this is a clear term where it's
easy to over barrel if if your
population
um
with a lot of the hands like 10 8 for
example mainly checking
check eight right check eight check
eight mainly checking so on the turn
exploitatively i would not be folding
the five it's not a great idea
so this is another good example of
especially i think board pairing rivers
in this kind of scenarios the five and
the nine
maybe even
no i don't think actually a straight
card makes a lot of sense because again
if the river is a nine to make to bring
the point home if we check
uh again if we would remove the dunk
then we carry our 9x to the river when
we check then imposition is no longer
incentivized to bat his queen axe for
example to bet anything to be honest
so then that the main reason why we dunk
on reverse it's not equity now not
accurate realization but it's to prevent
film from pot control okay because if
you have a nine and we check and
imposition checks behind kings that's
not great so
let me go back now to my last slide
which is a little interactive slide
knowing what we know now
so the reasons why we dunk which were
nigh equity on flop turn realize our
equity flop turn
to prevent film from both oh actually by
the way we didn't really talk about this
one
to realize equity but let's say indeed
the flop was 754 right and let's say we
have a hand like seven five four let's
say we have ten nine i think ten nine is
a good example on seven five four if we
check any bets we have to fold
where if we bet ourselves i really like
ten nine because on eight and a six you
you your perceived range connects very
well right we make a lot of straights
and then you have an equity bluff so i
would say any 9x hand is a very good bet
on the flop right not the 95 as we
remembered but for example at like 910
which is a bad hand that otherwise
should check and fall to the bet now
people say yeah we can also check race
but the problem is if you check and
imposition only bets a low frequency
okay then his betting range is a bit
strong and then you're suddenly putting
in a check race
against a stronger betting range whereas
if we don't we don't bet and try to
bluff the air proportion of winning's
range okay he's still a lot of shitty
hands
and that's the hands that we're trying
to
fold out
okay
so same with the with the four dudes we
were dunking ten percent on the river
not to fall out good hands we're just
falling out air fully not [ __ ] okay so
tonight realize equity to prevent film
from pot controlling this is true on all
streets especially as we saw on the
river and three by pots out of position
that example they gave on a six there
it's very important to extract value out
of our equity or another tenants all
streets we are investing in our equity
by betting so taking these points in
consideration who can give me an example
of a spot that we haven't discussed
where dunking
would be a great idea
given the like the mechanics of dunking
yeah do we also don't get very big on
survivors yes for example we saw that on
that five if i go back to this example
actually i would say on a nine
check bat call no wait
on the five it was
i mean here actually we're already
betting three quarters huh so it's it's
not a small bet you usually want to
again we want a bet small in spots
where we still want the bat a bit of a
merge range which on the river is less
common now there are scenarios
maybe a bonus one if someone can point
it out let me see motor boards big blind
three bat versus small blind
that's actually true one of the i like
this guy one of the small spots where we
can lead small reverse big light this
opposition caller three pot is indeed
mona boards
if you can tell me why because i
personally don't really know to be
honest i mean
don't really know obviously it's it's
because of the reasons we we just
explained but
so and then for example on the five
where was the five of hearts
i saw some owens 1.9 percent o in
whereas for example in the let's say we
remove ace 9 from the betting range from
in position then probably we can dunk
that bit actually we can do that
because a is 9 i would say if you remove
ace nine from this barreling range on
the turn and then make the river a nine
we do have big bets but now you know we
still have to be a little bit careful
because
first of all
he sometimes has ace nine right and
jamming into a range that that's h9 is
is not a great idea
um
check
i want to see the ranges
yeah you see button still has the 90 to
100 equity advantage
but which probably shifts on a five and
therefore we have some big bets
yeah so on the five it shifts to us
and therefore we do have big bets on the
five
and therefore we have more the sixty
percent which is
a sizing that these 80 to 90 equity
hands once a bet and therefore we have
60 and not and not bigger
because also if you jam
and you're in position let's say you go
check all check call
jam and you're in position
let's say you better yeah i mean i would
just fault right i would just fall the
less i have a nine because you're
jamming one
one of them spots on a great river for
you it's very hard to carry enough
bluffs to the river so i would say if
you just over bet here
like in this spot
yeah imposition can just overfall
especially in practice
so that's not a great strategy with
tribal preflop out of position check off
flop turn ace i like that one so
let's try to mimic that example
so indeed if you check all the flop as
initial razor you have the same small
buffers big blind you also sometimes
lead on an ace turn
it's it's a similar example also again
small
all right
so let's say we three bet
go
and let's say what would be an example
the board should probably not be too
connected
i would say this and then an ace turn
could maybe be a good example
let's say he bats
off but we still call if the ace five is
four that's why i picked exactly 105.4
turn ace
we don't bad range so well thought
i i helped you a little bit by trying to
give the ideal board but this is a good
example so we check out the flop turn is
an ace
and we bat range on turn for a half pot
and again that's because if you look at
in position imposition
was betting quite
quite some hands are on the flop
probably if we bet
he better one third a bit more often so
he bets a lot of these pairs as well now
actually we even call probably more his
highs so the turn is even greater
yeah and then we can put quite a lot of
pressure
because he his range has so much like if
we look at the top pairs
uh now
i mean look at this
now this seems like a range to invest
the money in right
this this seems like a range that we can
put money in and it since other position
also imposition also sees that the age
is very good if we check how will
imposition respond oh hey it's very good
card i have a 10 oh i have pocket sevens
oh i have
king queen i king queen maybe could
bluff as his blocking day's king his
queen but he's like i will check behind
we want to prevent film from pot
remember one of the
one of the main reasons
so we come out dunking
retrieve it out of position check our
low board turn ace we have a lot of
asics yes there was a very nice river
dunk today from very sweet versus stefan
quite advanced move comp oh could you
maybe post it in the chat
if i mean if guys
very sweet does something you know we
have to uh we have to think about it
explosively a flop or turn spot where
villain is too passive and will split
their range poorly when check 2.
exploitatively a flop or turn spot where
tombow is putting me on the spot here a
follow up or third spot where a villain
is too passive and will split their
range poorly when checked too but if you
split this range poorly when checked we
get a lot of information could you maybe
give
give a little bit more information small
right has more suited hands big blind
three bed range contains quite some
unsuited trash
some 109 hi nice i found the spot today
was kind of shocked
but it makes so for for hot
uh it makes sense now right very sweet
and stefan the two most fun players in
poker yeah it's true but if if you
the thing is there's so much going on
that
they're they're definitely playing over
the line of uh
they're
they're so creative that at some point i
don't follow it anymore i would rather
have someone who some destroyed a more
creative place so you can understand it
but now there's just so much stuff going
on that at some point is very hard to to
learn from all right let's close it off
with uh with some dunking action of very
sweet and stefan oh my god what a game
what a game guys what a game any poker
fan would love this game stefan opens
the button various three three bets from
the big blind stefan four bets okay so
four web bots quite a lot of dunking as
i think i explained earlier
also four robots is one of these
scenarios where i said that if you
sometimes check all the flop and even
the turn is sort of a blank because we
have already overfolded we can suddenly
do quite a lot of donking especially if
the checkback range of imposition will
realize quite a lot of good equity
bearish with calls bear spree check
raises the big blind versus button on
knight five four stephen calls bear
sweet checks
stefan betts king air suite calls and a
front bet of barry on a five so
basically saying he has ace five suited
or something five six suited
um or in general you could just have a
very strong hand i'm looking at it in a
way that i cannot see yet the whole
cards below or he has a very
strong hand that just thinks that stefan
will put control on a fight even though
i don't think that's very likely so
maybe this is just
i have aaron i hope you have error bluff
that's what i'm going for
very sweet has a four yeah okay
obviously we're playing very sweet and
stefan i should have obviously included
the four as well right versus king six
yeah so if we now go for our points i
don't think i mentioned this spot right
yeah sometimes these guys do things that
are a bit uh above my pay grade i would
say i mean it is a merch but i mean he's
betting
he's spending
stefan is getting a very great price he
only has to call 5k to win 34. stefan is
not a big fan of folding stefan would be
capable of hero calling here maybe with
ace queen or something no spades i would
definitely see that as a scenario or an
ace high in general
but the problem is with this bat said
don't really think we make better hands
fault and usually if you want to merge
making better hands fault is usually
part of the strategy nacho probably yeah
nacho is uh yeah
he he he's a poker fanatic playing in
this game but i mean you have to be a
poker fanatic a lot of their plays seem
to resolve around spots that are
uncommon people have not studied and
aren't certain how to approach so that's
good that jay mentioned this because if
you remember all the way in the
beginning of the seminar i rambled about
how playing unconventional strategies
put your opponent in parts of the tree
that they're not used to and there's big
room for error especially if you
have looked at that tree for example
dunking okay
yeah when the card is really bad for
stabbing in position it would just check
back out
we should definitely dunk exactly so hot
got it
to real wizard i just realized i'm
damning myself everyone my bad for the
dms i'm an old man doing this no problem
yeah he only has straight listen if he
had a lot of money behind then i could
then i could have found this play
because like i said i definitely think
stefan uh
has made time has made thinner calls
than ace jack here on the river for
example or his queen
uh and then maybe he would fold
uh let's say he has
nine eight of spades or something maybe
he folds that but uh i don't think we
should ask stefan to fold something but
that's somebody saying oh actually yeah
i haven't even mentioned i mean stefan
man it's standard for stefan the value
bluff
all right so to wrap it up i have no
[ __ ] clue what's going on here so
sorry this is probably not the in in in
my reasons to dunk right
uh he prevents the a high check back and
check calling is zero v against a good
range stefan could make the mistake of
never folding ace high
good point actually from steve here he
is so i do think he's going to make the
mistake of never folding ace high so
then the question is does he have more
eight highs than bluffs because if we
start value of
the valuable effects double called it
you should call with more ace highs
then if we check assuming we're not
folding
then that that then that he has bluffs
plus there is some hands now that we're
betting for protection on the turn like
maybe a nine
that
would check behind the river and
therefore we don't lose our stack so
okay but let's not try to understand
this spot because then we probably
need another hour but i do steve i think
makes makes a good point here
so coming back to the webinar i think we
are going to close it off as we've
passed the one hour mark i want to thank
everyone for tuning in
i hope you guys uh learned something
do we dunk the flop more versus ep tight
range or button wide range both yeah the
range so dan actually makes an important
point there at the end obviously if
someone opens 4x okay and the flopcon
754
we didn't really defend a lot of hands
that connect on that board
right we're dunking from an advantage so
if someone opens 4x 754 is not our board
okay
same if someone opens three x from ep
and you go on the big blind but if
someone opens memories from ep you can
on the big blind it's a very good port
for you so always look at how your range
connects with the board
all right guys thank you muchos gracias
da nada take care guys
[Music]
you
