### TOPIC: the science of poker performance
did you know that the biggest leak most
pokerex have isn't necessarily their
poker technique but rather their
performance
today we're going to talk about the
mental Game of Poker
this is one that I've been excited to
talk about because I believe that the
mental Game of Poker is largely
underrated I think that after today's
lecture you'll see that this is a skill
that should be developed just as much as
your poker technique as we all know
poker is a game of small edges and big
swings and every hand can be considered
an investment into your Edge but the
tidal waves of variance and those huge
swings can easily overwhelm even the
most seasoned players why is studying
the mental game important well let me
demonstrate this to you using an example
let's imagine that we have you know an A
game A B game a c game you can
categorize it however you like but I'm
just going to use ABC for this example
and we'll say that when you're playing
your A game you're zoned in you're doing
really well you're locked into the
action you can feel the flow you're in
the zone and here you're winning six big
binds per hundred your b game solid but
kind of autopilot the little button
clicky you're still doing well three big
lines per hundred and then we'll have
your C game and this is somewhat tilted
or sub-optimal negative two now I think
I'm being quite generous at negative two
and I think when a lot of people are
tilted their tilted game might be more
like negative 20 right it might just be
huge blenders so this is fairly generous
but let's just use these numbers for an
example so scenario one you play your A
game ten percent of the time that's when
you're really locked in most of the time
you're playing your b game and say 30 of
the time you're playing a C game you're
not on monkey tilt but you're not really
focused either right if we add up your
EV here you're winning 1800 big lines
over the course of a hundred thousand
hands 1.8 big planes per hundred now
let's look at scenario two it's very
similar except it's 30 percent a game
ten percent C game right so you're
taking 20 of that time that you're kind
of playing sub-optimally and moving it
into the Zone this pretty small shift
but even that is enough to almost double
your win rate right you go from eighteen
hundred to thirty four hundred and you
can plug in different numbers to play
around with this I think I've been
pretty generous so far with the a b and
c win rates no matter how you slice it
moving your performance
away from your worst game and towards
your best game can have dramatic effects
on your win rates
you need to be putting in more volume at
a higher level of performance and I
don't think this is something most of us
capitalize on I think a lot of people
are just so focused on volume that they
forget about the quality of that volume
in this presentation we're going to
cover mental Wellness we're going to
talk about the seven types of tilt how
to recognize that tilt and how to
correct it and finally we'll talk about
weaponizing your mental game so let's
start with the foundations first I'm
going to talk about mental health
setting yourself up for better things
down the road now why is it so easy to
neglect your mental health mental health
is tricky developing emotional
intelligence and being cognizant of
your own feelings is as much a skill as
developing poker technique in and of
itself the problem is that it requires
more introspection and it requires
addressing issues that we often
subconsciously or even directly choose
to ignore this is why I think mental
health is such a difficult aspect to
address because unlike poker skill where
we have solvers and we have coaches and
we have trackers to measure the
performance mental health is much harder
to measure to track and to review mental
health can range from I'm not putting in
very good performance to crippling
anxiety depression or worse so I think
it's important that you set yourself up
for a good foundation in order to
maximize your performance and before we
go any further may I just say I am not
some Guru I'm not a mental health expert
I'm not a psychologist I am not a
performance coach and I have never
claimed to be one I'm just a poker
player that's read a few books and has
dealt with some of the same struggles
that I'm sure all of you have I've
struggled with my fair fair share of
mental health as I'm sure many of you
have as well keep this in mind and take
what I say with a grain of salt but what
I am good at is reading and digesting
information and I think I'm pretty good
at relaying that information in a way
that other people can understand clearly
so again not a guru okay guys all right
let's start with the emotional Spectrum
Peak Performance is a function of your
stress level or the cortisol levels in
your brain per se but how much stress is
ideal when playing poker now I'm going
to launch a poll here
foreign
mild stress and indeed that is the
correct answer
and this stems from something called
Yorkies dogs in law so the Yorky's
dachshund law is an old-school
psychological theory that proposes that
there is an optimal level of stress
between somewhere between you know just
an apathetic zombie and a nervous wreck
and the way they did this is they
measured performance against cortisol
levels in animals and humans and they
found that depending on the complexity
of the task there was an optimal level
between how stressed you were and the
performance quality if your stress is
too low you just you're apathetic you
don't care enough to improve or strive
for better it's just permanent autopilot
and again if your stress is very high
you're way more susceptible to tilt poor
emotional control you're unable to
separate the process from the outcome I
think a lot of players After
experiencing too much stress what
they'll do is they'll over compensate
and for example the will try to counter
it by removing emotion entirely this
approach is not optimal right if you're
in a zombie-like state you have this
emotional disconnection that just makes
it impossible to improve or motivate
yourself and ultimately will decrease
the quality of your play on the flip
side of that many players are far too
invested into their results which
creates tilt and prevents them from
separating the process from the outcome
and of course placing too much emotion
on the results of a poker hand is just
bound to end poorly because poker is so
swingy emotional access is going to
impede logical thoughts and decrease the
quality of your play now like I said the
optimal level of stress depends on the
complexity of the task more complex
tasks like poker require less stress
whereas less complex tasks you can often
do better with a little bit higher
stress but it's very much in a middle
ground so how do we get into the zone
and first of all what is the zone is it
even a real thing well many performance
Specialists state that the zone is
something of a state of flow whereby a
person is fully immersed in what they're
doing now while not everyone agrees on
what the zone is there are among
athletes and competitive Sportsmen a
collection of common terms that most of
them will use so in the zone you are
totally engrossed in the flow of the
action you don't experience any outside
thoughts or distractions you just feel
focused purely on execution not results
many say they feel an altered sense of
time and any thoughts have past and
future are purely strategic so the zone
is to me a state of immense Focus now I
come from a chess background and I used
to play a little bit of competitive
chess in competitive chess you can play
in a tournament setting for six hours
straight and over the board game six
hours straights that's how long the time
controls run and in that time it feels
like it goes by in an instant because
you just get so told totally engrossed
in the action even a simple board game
that everything else whizzes by you're
not focused on anything you're just in
the zone now how do we get in the zone
in poker there's a few things so first
of all as mentioned before you need the
optimal level of stress so you need to
care enough about your results but also
the degree of challenge so playing as an
underdog in a very challenging game can
cause anxiety and conversely a very high
skilled player playing in a low skilled
game will often feel boredom a lack of
Interest the psychology of optimal
experience states that this Zone this
flow state area happens when our skill
level is met by The Challenge poker is a
fairly challenging game but I feel like
a lot of us we're going to be on
autopilot we're not really that
interested sometimes if the game is slow
or if we just feel we're you know
totally ahead of our opponents it's
important that the degree of challenge
is met it's important that you're always
trying trying to get the most out of
your game before I go on I'm going to
talk a little bit about a vicious cycle
that I think many of us may relate to in
order to get in the zone you need the
optimal level of stress you need to be
interested and challenged enough
relative to your skill level in order to
do well and lastly you need your
physical health in check so accumulated
stresses from work relationships results
and just life in general all contribute
to emotional fatigue and these stressors
can build up over time but this creates
something that I might call the Vicious
Cycle so you get crappy results you
break your routine you start neglecting
your diet your sleep you start playing
poorly more often that affects your
results you get crappy results more
often and it just spirals like that
right so oftentimes to deal with
accumulated stressors in life will adapt
poor habits as crutches this can lead to
neglecting your sleep your routine
nutrition Health which only reinforces
your long-term stress and this vicious
cycle is especially common among poker
players the most dangerous part of this
cycle is that you can become just
completely trapped in a state of
Perpetual fatigue when you feel like
crap for long enough you will forget
what being well is supposed to feel like
trust me I I know you'll become
accustomed to always feeling tired and
worn out you will get trapped in your
sea game
forever without even realizing it in
this vicious cycle where no matter how
much you sleep you're always tired
whenever you eat here you just feel like
crap you just always lethargic and
apathetic and I don't know if any of you
guys have ever experienced this but I
know I have and it's a very hard cycle
to break 100 eh I'm sure we can all
relate to this on some level it is very
important to break out of that cycle
because all the performance training and
fancy words in the world won't help if
you're not taking care of your most
basic needs you know Maslow's hierarchy
right you need to get your sleep in
check you need to just like I'm not
saying wake up at 5am and go eat a salad
every day I'm just saying you know try
and sleep on a regular schedule try and
eat something other than pizza every day
right so I think one of the most
important things you could do to to
break out of that cycle I think the
first and most important step is just
establishing a daily routine and poker
players suck at daily routines because
we all have terrible sleep schedules
let's just face it now routine can be as
simple as your morning ritual this is
what I do when I wake up this is roughly
when I wake up you know work eat sleep
go to bed it doesn't have to be timed
out perfectly it's just your little
ritual here's what I do when I wake up
here's what I do before I go to sleep
sticking to a routine
will improve your sleep eating habits it
improves your stress your time your
Effectiveness many Studies have shown
that daily routine is strongly
correlated with better mental and
physical health there's many things you
can do you can exercise more often stay
hydrated and eat healthy food meditation
has been shown to help avoid doing
stressors well we can't do that as much
playing poker but you know what I mean
so don't overlook the the physical
aspect of the mental game mental health
stems from physical health you don't
have to be you know some gym jockey
something as simple as just getting your
sleep cycle in check just eating a
regular scheduled breakfast just not
letting this spiral out of control is
required
for everything else right next I want to
talk about building a poker training
routine so in addition to maintaining
reasonably healthy lifestyle you should
also try and build your poker training
routine I'm going to talk about what a
solid routine involves so first of all
when you're practicing poker you want an
intentional deliberate session rather
than just button clicking you want to
set smart goals for yourself and you
want to create a checklist of activities
to complete most importantly you need to
be dedicated to training over the long
term like any skill it requires
dedicated deliberate practice over time
even small amounts over a long time will
do wonders for your game this is an
example training routine and the truth
is you know you can create your own this
is something you can try after you're
done playing you can upload your most
recent hand histories the GTO Wizard and
then review yesterday's or your previous
sessions hand history series that same
day now that way you've uploaded a set
of hands and you're reviewing last
session's hands and that gives the thing
time to process that way you always have
hands to review I recommend sorting the
table by your biggest EV loss to find
your blunders next Mark a few of the
most interesting hands with a star and
use those hands as inspiration for new
spots to study tomorrow try the daily
dose of GTO and try and think of the
answer before looking at it of course
next you can use the GTO trainer I like
the pre-flop the river drill for General
training but you can also try a more
specific scenario you know maybe you
want to practice three bad pots or you
know in position c-bedding whatever you
like you can set a session for 50 100
hands and just try and grind that out
and do as best as you can study one new
spot in the solution browser for 10 20
minutes and I don't mean just stare at
the chart for 10 20 minutes you can look
at interesting spots from your hand
history review personally I like to
study similar textures and try and
extrapolate patterns between those
textures so for example maybe button
versus big blind single race pot
monotone then I'll look at a bunch of
monotone boards to see roughly how it
plays out from flop to River look at
reports I could make an entire coaching
video on you know just training routines
and how to study and such but this I
won't spend that much time on it because
this video is more about the mental game
aggregate reports I love the aggregate
reports if you have GTO is a premium
these are great you can group flops
together filter them browse term reports
you can also try the range Builder just
constructing one spots to help you think
and visualize your strategy and as an
extra step of course you can join the
weekly coaching or watch one of the
previous videos Okay so let's talk about
smart goals many people the first time
they hear this something will click I
know it did for me so a smart goal is a
goal that is
specific measurable attainable relevant
and time bound a smart goal so first of
all specific what exactly are you trying
to achieve measurable how will you know
when you've achieved it
is it genuinely possible to achieve it
is it attainable
how does it contribute to your well this
says your agency's Revenue growth but
does it contribute to your growth as a
person or as a poker player
and time bound so when does it get
achieved let me give you guys some
examples of smart goals versus dumb
goals so a smart goal I will practice
four bed pots in position for two hours
every week until I can regularly achieve
a GTO Wizard score of 95 in the trade so
note that it's very specific it's time
bound
it's measurable right
and it's achievable it's only two hours
a week now let's compare that to a dumb
goal I will memorize the strategy for
every four bed pot in every spot I don't
care how long it takes this one is not
measurable it's not time bound and it's
not achievable right let's try another
one I'll review my play every Friday for
30 minutes to an hour using the hand
history analyzer I'll look at any spot
with an EV loss greater than x you know
call it negative one negative two
whatever you like
now this this is achievable it's time
bound it's specific and it's measurable
because once you've reviewed your play
you know you've done it now a dumb goal
I review my place sometimes when I get
cooler to make sure it wasn't my fault
it's not time bound it's not super
specific and again the goal isn't really
correct this is just satiating your ego
not really trying to improve right A lot
of people just use wizard to look up
spots where they got cooler and say yeah
see I played it well that's not it's not
the point guys all right I will play 20K
hands this month I plan to play on XYZ
days and I've divided my time equally
between those days to create achievable
volume goals again it's specific it's
time bound it's achievable it's
measurable you have set it out you've
divided up your time you've created a
reasonable volume goal now let's compare
this to I've set a challenge to play a
hundred thousand hands I will Nana know
gusta multi-table until my eyes bleed
again this is not it's not specific in
that you haven't really divided this up
there's no time bound so it just feels
like it goes forever and you know it's
not super attainable in a short period
of time I'm not saying it's not possible
but this is a much better goal than this
right whenever you're trying to set a
poker goal for yourself try and ensure
that it is specific measurable
attainable relevant and time bound
that's how you achieve things small
achievable steps are much better than
Pie in the Sky vapid immeasurable dumb
calls right next I'm just going to talk
a little bit about the four stages of
competence so this is a common theory
about how people learn
what is the four stages of competence
well the theory states that we start at
unconscious incompetence and this is a
spot where you are unaware of the skill
and you you don't even realize your own
lack of proficiency you don't know what
you don't know next as you learn a
little bit more you start to recognize
your own lack of competence you're aware
that there is a valley of skill you're
missing you don't have that but you're
aware it exists then you start climbing
that Valley and you realize that
you're able to use the skill but only
with great effort
and as you improve further the skill
becomes automatic and I think it's like
this when you're learning everything not
just poker but even more specific maybe
four bed parts in position you know
maybe getting into the zone you can
apply this to many different things and
everyone here is going to be a somewhat
competent poker player but I think newer
players especially don't realize the
vast Valley of knowledge that exists
right
Dunning Kruger effect so this kind of
relates to Dunning Kruger which is a
very famous study
so the Dunning Kruger effects states
that the least skilled players tend to
overestimate their ability relative to
the population that's not to say that
they think they're great they just don't
realize how much how much they lack
right and the most skilled players tend
to underestimate their ability relative
to the population and this is true in
everything from logic to humor levels to
Poker skills to and most skill based
things right I think that strongly
relates to the four stages of
incompetence where when you're brand new
to a skill you don't even know what you
don't know right you're completely
unaware of what you're lacking this
Great Valley between where you are and
only as you climb up you realize what
you're missing and so the moral of this
story is
you don't know what you don't know until
you start to realize that you can't
really improve
so if you're a newer player looking at
this
realize there might be a lot more to
Poker than you've ever thought even if
you've been playing for years I'm sure
there's many Live players out there many
players have been playing the same
strategy for 10 15 years that haven't
really started to get into the GTO side
of things and that's a whole new skill
in and of itself right that's all for
chapter one let's
dig right into the next chapter the
seven types of tilts I've taken this
directly from the mental Game of Poker
by Jared tendler this is his original
book and in that book he outlines seven
types of tilts and he says that these
categories of tilt make the majority of
different situations that happen and
each of them has their own reasons that
can be addressed so the trick to dealing
with tilt is to First recognize what is
causing what type of tilt it is and then
once you can identify that you can
address the underlying factors
now I've added a few more after this
that I think should be in there but I'm
going to start with these seven
categories first right so we've got run
bad tilt a streak of bad variance
doesn't cause you to tilt we all run bad
right it just reveals the underlying
reasons you tilt and we've got Injustice
tilt so Injustice tilt means you're
angry at the sights the cards the poker
Gods the dealer for you know giving you
such a bad run of cards when there's the
hate losing tilt so hate losing tilt is
someone who hates losing more than they
like winning this is more common than
you might think then there's mistake
tilt which is you're not angry at the
cards or anyone else you just kind of
anger at yourself for your own mistakes
and of course there's entitlement tilt
so this is when you believe that your
skills or your cards or your range
entitles you to the pot Revenge tilt is
when you uh you're angry at another
player
and you go out of your way to Target
them with risky plays lastly there is
desperation tilt so desperation tilt is
the most severe and fatal form of tilt
that can lead to bankroll death gambling
addiction buying in for your entire
bankroll chasing huge losses this is one
that we need to absolutely avoid
so let's talk about run bad tilt now
like I said every human poker player
will experience bad runs this is bound
to happen it's a natural part of the
game but that's not what causes tilt the
Tilt that comes from running badly is a
form of accumulated tilt that develops
over time like I said a streak of bad
variance doesn't cause tilt reveals the
underlying reasons that you tilt so
teddler's theory is that we need to
identify those underlying reasons in
order to address run bad tilt and he
says that run bad tilt can sometimes be
a blessing in disguise because it
reveals
the underlying reasons he says that run
bad tilt is actually made up of these
types of things now it can be for
example
Injustice tilt this isn't fair I'm due
to run normal I never win a flip that's
Injustice tilt you're angry at the poker
gods or how is it possible to lose like
this again you just hate losing it's not
necessarily the variance you just hate
losing or you know oh I knew I shouldn't
have called how can I play so bad that's
mistake tilt right I'm too good of a
player for this to happen how can I keep
losing to this freaking donkey it's
entitlement tilt you're entitled to win
because you know you're just too good to
to lose I'm going to three bet shove
this idiot who does he think he is
that's Revenge tilts you're just going
out of your way to Target this guy I'll
stay here for a week if I have to win
that's that's desperation tilt to
chasing losses so let's talk about each
of these and how to address all of these
types of tilts right talk about
Injustice tilts now again Injustice tilt
differs from other types of tilt and
that you believe you have been wrong
your luck is worse than mathematically
possible uh some players will say you
know the site is rigged the dealers
rigged the deck is rigged everything's
rigged against me or even if they don't
say that they'll just
hit you with excessive bad beat stories
no one wants to hear excessive bad beat
stories right and Justice tilt is tricky
to deal with but what does it stem from
firstly Injustice tilt stems from just
being bad at conceptualizing variants
now remember that humans have selective
memory
we have bias so what every human will do
pro or amateur is you're going to filter
out good variants and you're going to
focus on bad variants you know when I
win it's skill when I lose it's bad luck
you don't track your results properly
this is common right you need to get a
HUD you need to track your sessions and
also you don't recognize that perhaps
you're just being consistently outplayed
this is also a form of a Justice tilt
you feel you're getting unlucky but
perhaps you're just not playing well now
you need to identify the strengths and
weaknesses in your game evaluate
sessions regularly learn to recognize
good and bad variants and I honestly
think that just learning how to use the
poker variance calculator is the most
effective way to address Injustice tilt
you need to be able to understand and
expect the swings I think a lot of
players that come from a live background
when they first play Live they'll often
think that the game is rigged or that
live I was you know just way way
swingier than it than it should be or
that sorry I mean online is too swingy
and what this stems from is for example
a live player doesn't put in a whole lot
of volume in a year whereas online
you're putting in triple quadruple you
know way way way more volume and so the
swings are reflected in that and so
if you don't if you're not used to a lot
of volume if you're used to like a low
volume uh format of Poker you might not
be very good at conceptualizing the
variance that comes along with that
so again conceptualizing variants
knowing how swingy this game can be is a
powerful tool to address Injustice tilt
and to know what type of swings can be
expected all right so let's talk about
hate losing tilt now hate losing tilt is
a form of tilt found in highly
competitive people who simply hate
losing this type of player hates losing
more than they enjoy winning this is not
something that's for me particularly but
I know a lot of players that just
absolutely hate losing more than they
like winning if losing even one small
pot in an otherwise good session ruins
your session or having one losing
session in an otherwise winning month
sends you over the edge you may have
hate losing tilt so how do we address it
the root cause
of this tilt
is from over competitiveness and placing
too much of your self-worth on your
results remember
money lost at the table could be
considered an investment into your Edge
and this is something out of 10 Works
books so if you lost making a profitable
play then remember that your losses are
temporary so long as you keep playing
well and investing into your Edge right
and so one of the things that may cause
I hate losing tilt is that you just hate
losing money but remember that again
it's an investment into your Edge and
the losses are temporary in the long
term so long as you have that edge you
must learn to separate the process from
the outcome this is very important let's
talk about mistake tilt and I think this
is one that I've suffered from the most
mistake tilt is the frustration you feel
when reflecting on poor plays you've
made in the past you might say to
yourself things like it's going to take
such a long time to make up for this
mistake you know it ruined my session
maybe it just makes you feel like a
failure it makes you think you're not
good enough maybe you put so much of
your self-worth on your play skill but
any mistake just sets you back you know
it's inexcusable to be making such
obvious rookie mistakes at this point in
my career I should have I've put the
time in I should have known better and
well some uh reflection on your own play
is absolutely healthy and even required
to improve as a player so putting too
much of your self-worth on it is not
good to address mistake tilt we need to
realize that Mastery is built on a
mountain of mistakes you cannot improve
A Perfect session you need to make
mistakes as a person to improve the root
cause of mistake tilt is unrealistic
expectations thinking that every cooler
crappy spot could have been avoided and
that's obviously not true expecting
Perfection from yourself and being too
hard on yourself or not playing like a
poker God all the time
you cannot attain Perfection all the
time and you need to recognize that and
most importantly mistake tilt comes from
the inability to separate bad luck from
Bad play you know you assign every bad
spot other than the most obvious coolers
to to mistake like a break-even call and
okay they actually had it this time you
know oh I knew I should have folded like
well maybe not right
so again to address mistake tilt address
unrealistic expectations stop expecting
perfection
and learn to separate the outcome from
the process let's talk about entitlement
tilts so entitlement tilt occurs when
you believe that your hand or range or
skill level or whatever else entitles
you to the pot I deserve to win this pot
I deserve it because this board hits my
range so well or I'm just so far above
this donkey and skill level I should
just be winning this part you know I had
Asus pre-flop I'm not folding to this
fish I don't care that the board ran out
five six seven eight of spades like
entitlement tilt is it's when you
believe something entitles you the pot
and entitlement tilt is dangerous
because uh
the root cause of it again is
overconfidence but the problem isn't
that you believe you're better than your
opponents it's not that you have a
stronger range that's fine it's probably
even true the problem is that you
believe this entitles you to the pot
leading to arrogance overconfidence
riskier plays and ultimately tilt
now being more skilled does not entitle
you to the pot having a stronger range
does not entirely into the pot you may
not recognize your opponent's skill
level or strategy maybe they're
deviating to exploit you so I think
entitlement tilt often stems from the
lies you tell yourself to protect your
ego whether that be about
you know your skill level or even the
range that you play in the spot versus
your opponent and well it's fine to push
a range Advantage you need to realize
that doesn't entitle you to win every
single part right
so again the problem isn't that you have
a bit of range uh it's not that you
think that you're a better player I mean
every poker player thinks this
it's that
you believe this entitles you to win the
hand and that's simply not true
so let's talk about revenge tilt now
Revenge tilt is uh
when you're targeting another player
something about poker can bring out your
vengeful side even very
well-mannered people can be brought to a
very vengeful state
by playing cards it tends to be aimed at
specific players maybe you feel that
this player has targeted you somehow or
their players somehow disrespecting you
you know they feel like they're just
three betting you every time you open
maybe you just you think that they
deserve payback for their fishy
unreasonable play so you go out of your
way to attack them and this causes you
to change your strategy and react
sporadically and ultimately when you do
this you give up control Revenge tilt
how do we address it no remember when
you seek out revenge when you alter your
play
you surrender control
you're no longer playing your A game
you're playing a strategy designed to
attack someone
there's a difference between a calm
logical exploit an angry vengeful
Revenge tactics it's the difference
between you know a calculated raise
versus an inappropriate donk and just
spewing right you need to check your ego
you need to stay in control and most
importantly guys you need to weaponize
patience identify specific situations or
players cause you to surrender control
of your normal strategy resolve the
flawed reasons and improve the technical
mistakes that led you there in the first
place so what causes what triggers this
Revenge tilt to come out and again we
need to First identify when is this
happening well it's causing me to
surrender control of my standard
strategy it's causing me to completely
change gears and go into some button
clicking spew Fest to Target this player
who I think deserves it
when does that happen
what caused it to happen
address that and you will address
Revenge tilt all right so lastly I'll
talk about the most dangerous type of
tilt and this is desperation tilt now
desperation tilt is hard to recognize in
the moment this is the type of tilt that
causes you to chase losses over play
your bankroll and take on way more risk
than you should and the reason
desperation tilt is so much more
dangerous than other types of tilt is
that desperation tilt can destroy a
bankroll rather than a session okay guys
desperation tilt is driven by the
typical gambler's fallacy of gambling to
break even by taking higher risks or you
know gambling outside your role to try
and get unstopped to try and catch up
if you regularly experience symptoms of
desperation tilt you know buying in for
way more than your role should allow
just taking on immense risk after you've
had a bit of a downswing even if it's
just temporary you know even if you just
do it for a little bit and then you know
catch yourself and stop this is a very
very dangerous form of tilt that is
going to destroy your results you need
to take immediate and non-negotiable
steps to mitigate Revenge tilt so first
of all you need to have a sense of
urgency you need to recognize this
desperation tilt before it becomes
full-blown you know maybe you buy in for
too much but it's not too late to stop
that but at a certain point you're just
all in you know to the moon or to the
ground and nothing in between you need
to set a strict stop loss combined with
other prevention methods for for maximum
Effectiveness and you need to develop an
emergency response so when you realize
this is happening
probably just the best thing to do is
just shut down your session before it
snowballs many coaches talk about you
know trying to play through tilt and for
an MTT player for example a desperation
tilt might simply be just buying in for
all of your role to one huge tournament
and at that point it's too late for cash
players it's more like just buying it
for Stakes way too high but ultimately
when you sense it coming you need to
shut it down and you need to shut it
down fast because this desperation tilt
is the number one thing that can destroy
a bank crawl I'm going to talk about
other types of tilt that Taylor doesn't
address in this book so one is one that
we all know scared money so
scared money is a conscious decision to
play defensively out of fear of losing
money and the easiest way to fix a
scared money strategy is simply by using
a proper bankroll if you don't know how
to set up a proper bankroll watch the
variance in bankroll management video or
just Google it there's tons of resources
online when you play scared money you
tend to play defensively passively you
tend to overfold you don't take on
nearly enough risk in your technical
strategy and this is going to cause you
to for example you'll only get the money
in with the nuts or whatever scared
money is not a strong strategy it's very
easy to beat then there's winners tilt
now winners tilt is more common than
people realize when you run extremely
well when you run like a god you're more
likely to take on tremendous amounts of
risks and just overplay your hands
everywhere when you're just feeling like
Icarus just flying too close to the Sun
that can also cause you to tilt believe
it or not
you just feel like you're unbeatable and
this will cause you to overplay
everything now there's also
disassociation tilt which is very common
for people in the low stress State uh
it's a zombie-like autopilot state that
just leads to random button clicking and
eventually a complete lack of caution if
you dissociate too much so again you
need to be somewhat invested you can't
just be completely disassociated from
the game
and then what I think is by far the most
common type of tilt is distraction tilt
not giving your full attention to the
game and this is usually caused by
multitasking you're watching videos of
social media while playing uh you know
maybe some YouTube videos maybe you've
got something else going on chatting on
Discord not really paying attention to
what's going on and while this doesn't
seem that bad what it does is it brings
you out of the zone and and into your b
game immediately because you can't play
your a game while you're distracted you
need to be zoned in right and you can't
be zoned in if you're watching YouTube
videos while you're playing talk a
little bit about the circle of control
this is a very useful thing that you can
use to address tilts and the circle of
control is a theory that basically
argues
that there are three things in life we
have a circle of control these are
things we can control we have a circle
of influence these are things that we
can influence and a circle of concern
these are things we care about politics
whether Etc that we don't have any
influence or control over
now the theory is that you should
focus more on things you can control and
influence and this will expand your
circle of control so you cannot control
the deck but you can control your
strategy you can't control your luck but
you can control how you react to your
luck
and you cannot completely control your
emotions but you could take away the
power that your emotions have on you
again I've mentioned this many times
before but humans remember losses more
strongly than wins this is like the
foundation of the insurance industry
right risk aversion is just built into
our mental framework and it affects all
of our decisions now in poker this often
leads to placing too much mental energy
on bad runs and just not recognizing
good runs so it's much easier to
recognize bad variants than good
variants right remember we are biased
creatures and it's very easy to
recognize when you're running badly not
so easy to recognize when you're running
well like I said if I win its skill if
you win it's luck like you need to
realize both sides of the variance coin
before I move on to chapter three which
will be a short chapter I want to talk
about gambling addiction now this video
will probably be watched by you know
maybe 10 000 people maybe more and at
least some of them will be struggling
with this the hard truth is that some
players are not cut out to play poker
professionally some people are just very
susceptible to desperation tilt some
people do not manage their money
correctly and some people
beyond all control are just not cut out
for this and that's okay that's
completely normal the problem is that it
can lead to crippling and debilitating
gambling addiction the fact that you
identify as an advantage player does not
Shield you from addiction right just
because you're a doctor doesn't mean
that you can't be become addicted to
opioids you know just because you're an
AAA counselor doesn't mean that you
can't be an alcoholic and just because
you identify as an advantage Gambler
does not Shield you from gambling
addiction so if you or someone you love
is coping with gambling addiction please
take these steps firstly you can
self-exclude from poker sites or casinos
either temporarily or permanently they
are required by law to comply that will
prevent you from playing there call your
local gambling addiction hotline and try
this website be gambleaware.org for
further resources lastly I want to talk
about how to weaponize your mental game
and again this is kind of a short
section but it once you learn to
recognize what causes tilt you can also
recognize when your opponents run tilted
how to capitalize on it and make no
mistake they're doing the same to you
right so here's an example your opponent
knits up after losing a big pot you know
them well this always happens they start
playing very tight they fear losing more
money against this player they're
playing an exploitable scared money
strategy and they're a great Target to
run a big Bluff against as their fear
may cause them to overfold
aggression beats scared money just don't
overdo it right you don't get too crazy
another example your opponent tries to
win back their money immediately and
will overplay underfold when tilted uh
so this player will continue to wide as
they're chasing losses against this
opponent you should bet for thinner
value and avoid bluffing as they'll call
too often and won't give your Bluffs
enough respect
if they're type of player that's you
know going to bet aggressively with the
betting lead don't call with static
Bluff catchers unless you tend to call
it all the way down on the majority of
runouts because they're going to over
aggress at you and there's no point
calling twice and then folding if you
feel that they're over exerting you know
call withdrawals of course but static
Bluff catches that you plan to call fold
aren't very profitable if they're going
to bet bet so against this opponent bet
for very thin value remove Bluffs from
your betting lines and remove static
that is a hand that can't improve Bluff
catchers from your range another example
is an opponent that has revenge tilt and
will specifically over aggress against
you maybe you've three bet them one too
many times and this player will start
just overreacting to any aggression from
you specifically and again you just
adjust the same way you would against
any Maniac you remove Bluffs from your
aggressive lines and let them overplay
into your value heavy range right let
them just pile money into the pots when
you have a good hand and don't invest
too much in static Bluff catchers that
you'd plan to fold after calling once
and you know your implied odds go way up
withdraws by recognizing the different
types of tilt you will be able to
identify how to make money from other
players that are on tilt and you'll be
able to identify how to prevent yourself
from making these same mistakes in
summary
let's go over everything we've learned
today
so first of all establish a lifestyle
routine and a training routine and don't
neglect your physical health things like
simply staying hydrated not completely
destroying your sleep schedule not
eating bread every day for like
breakfast lunch and dinner you know
these are required for setting the
foundations up for good mental health
I'm not saying you have to wake up at
5am and hit the gym every day I'm just
saying go to bed at a reasonable time
wake up at a reasonable time even if
it's unreasonable as long as it's
consistent that's what matters in Sleep
Quality and try and get your physical
health in check try and set a routine up
similarly you want to establish a
training routine you want regular
deliberate intentional practice rather
than just button clicking when it comes
to addressing tilt I think the most
important thing is to learn to separate
the outcome from the process that is to
say you need to separate the results of
the hand from how you played the hand
did you play it well did you play it
profitably without knowing the results
ahead of time the answer is yes
then great you've made an investment
into your Edge right so separate how you
played from the results of the hand you
need to identify different types of
tilts and identify the emotional root
cause of that tilt in order to address
it being able to name the tilts is one
thing but then identifying the emotions
that cause it is another that requires a
little more introspection once you can
do that you can inject logic and address
it I think one of the most important
skills to dealing with tilt is just
improving your ability to conceptualize
variants that is to say you know you
know what type of variants to expect you
know when you're experiencing good
variance and bad variance and you know
just how swingy this game is like I've
said I've got that variance in bankroll
management video if you want to learn
how to use a poker variance calculator
there's tons of other videos and
resources online I think probably the
easiest tool just to use a poker
variance calculator play around with
that a little bit while and you will get
a much better feel for conceptual
license variants recognize your implicit
biases
right recognize that we remember the bad
more than the good we remember the
downswings more than the upswings and
lastly weaponize your mental games so
protecting yourself from tilt is
defensive but then recognizing when
others are on tilt and capitalizing on
that is offensive
and if you do these things your
performance will be much less in the C
game and much more in the a game and
your results will improve improve
drastically so there's a few resources
that you guys can check out mental Game
of Poker 1 and 2 by Jared tendler that's
what this lecture is mostly based on
there's also Peak poker performance by
Patricia cardner and I think Jonathan
little was also in that book
and just a quote by Edison opportunity
is missed by most people because it's
stressed in overalls and looks like work
thank you everyone for coming to my
session I hope you all enjoyed it I hope
you all got something out of it I know I
certainly learned a few things making
this
